TARGET: BEA News
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog | U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
URL: https://www.bea.gov/news/blog

The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog | U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Toggle navigation
Main navigation
Data
by Topic
by Place
by Economic Account
Tools
Interactive Data
Application Programming Interface (API)
Country Facts
BEARFACTS
Industry Facts
Trade in Value Added (TiVA) Table Builder
GDP & Personal Income Mapping
RIMS II
eFile
News
Economy at a Glance
News Releases
Release Schedule
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
Survey of Current Business
Archive
For Journalists
Research
Offices of Research
Meet the Researchers
Papers
Special Sworn Researcher Program
Research Using Company-Level Data
Fellowship Program
Resources
Learning Center
Methodologies
Multimedia
Article Collections
For Congressional Users
For Developers
For Students
About
Who We Are
BEA Leadership
Innovation at BEA
Advisory Committees
Budget and Performance
Policies and Information
Working at BEA
Help
Contact Us
Ask an Expert
For Survey Respondents
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Glossary
Guidelines for Citing BEA
Home
News
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
State Personal Income: More Than a Critical Economic Measure
March 23, 2026
A blog from BEA Director Vipin Arora
It’s widely recognized that BEA’s economic statistics are among the world’s most closely watched. That’s because our data about trade, consumer prices, and economic activity underpin decisions about interest rates and trade policy, taxes and spending, hiring and investing, and more. You might, however, be unaware that BEA data are also used in allocating hundreds of billions in federal funds…
Read More
A Continual Quest for Improving Data Quality
March 16, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
I wouldn’t imagine the phrase “data quality” stirs the imagination of many people. I get it. Artificial intelligence or big data—or even e-commerce, to take it back a few years—sound more exciting. Our team at BEA, however, gets fired up about data quality, especially improving data quality. That’s great, you might be thinking, but what exactly do you mean by data quality?
Read More
Granularity: Even More Economic Detail Coming Your Way
March 2, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
We use the word “granular” a lot at BEA. It’s not a term that comes up much in day-to-day conversation elsewhere. When I first started hearing it here regularly, I always pictured salt. As in granulated salt. That isn’t crazy—apparently granularity first entered the English language in the 17th century to describe texture. It’s slowly evolved to mean level of detail, which is how we use…
Read More
Economic Release Schedule Update
February 23, 2026
SUITLAND, Md. – The following update to BEA’s post-shutdown economic release schedule is currently available:
U.S. International Trade in Goods and Services, January 2026, will be released March 12 at 8:30 a.m. These data were originally scheduled for release on March 5.
See BEA’s full economic release schedule on our website.
Read More
The Making of Gross National Product and the Nation’s Security
February 23, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
Throughout our history, BEA’s statistics have been developed and used for many purposes. Whether to shed light on the flow of goods and services abroad; compare buying power from one metropolitan area to another; or highlight the income available for saving or spending—and  much, much more—our statistics are used by people all over the country. That includes data users…
Read More
Faster Release of Personal Income, Outlays: Same Time as GDP
February 9, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
Every month, Americans eagerly anticipate BEA’s GDP and personal income and outlays estimates. These statistics are essential for understanding, for instance, how fast our economy is growing, or how rapidly the incomes of people across the country are rising.
Read More
Better Together: International Transactions and International Investment Position
February 2, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
Have you ever noticed how some things just go better together? Probably tops on my list are peanut butter and chocolate—neither one is the same without the other. But don’t forget about raisins and bran or watermelon and feta cheese (surprisingly better than it sounds).
Read More
Economic Release Schedule Update
January 27, 2026
SUITLAND, Md. – The following update to BEA’s post-shutdown economic release schedule is currently available:
International Trade in Goods and Services, December and Annual 2025, will be released on Feb. 19 at 8:30 a.m. These data were originally scheduled for release on Feb. 5.
Read More
Coming Soon: National, Industry, and State GDP (and More) United in One News Release
January 26, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
A couple of years ago, I wrote about our success in harmonizing BEA’s national, industry, and regional statistics. This was a monumental achievement. It ensured that for any given update, the national, industry, and regional statistics cover the same periods, use the same vintages of underlying source data, and are based on comparable methods and classification frameworks.
Read More
Economic Release Schedule Updates: GDP, Personal Income and Outlays
January 15, 2026
SUITLAND, Md. – The following updates to BEA’s post-shutdown economic release schedule are currently available:
GDP (Second Estimate), 4th Quarter and Year 2025, will be released March 13 at 8:30 a.m. This report was originally scheduled for Feb. 26.Personal Income and Outlays, January 2026, will be released March 13 at 8:30 a.m. This report was originally scheduled for Feb. 26.GDP (Third Estimate), Industries, Corporate Profits,…
Read More
Like Menominee and Marinette, BEA’s Economic Accounts Are Linked Together
January 12, 2026
A blog post from BEA Director Vipin Arora
My son and I recently visited the twin cities of Menominee in Michigan and Marinette in Wisconsin for the first time. We strolled along the pier in Menominee before driving along the bay in Marinette. What a treat! I later found out that these two cities share a rich economic history – stretching back to the 19th century – as they developed together into a manufacturing hub. That…
Read More
Economic Release Schedule Updates: GDP, Personal Income and Outlays
January 7, 2026
SUITLAND, Md. – The following updates to BEA’s post-shutdown economic release schedule are currently available:
New dates:
Personal Income and Outlays, October and November 2025, will be released Jan. 22 at 10 a.m. The October and November reports, originally scheduled separately for Nov. 26 and Dec. 19, 2025, will be combined into one release with statistics for both months.
Read More
Pagination
Current page of blogs
1
Go to page 2 of 0 of blogs
2
Go to page 3 of 0 of blogs
3
Go to page 4 of 0 of blogs
4
Go to page 5 of 0 of blogs
5
Go to page 6 of 0 of blogs
6
Go to page 7 of 0 of blogs
7
Go to page 8 of 0 of blogs
8
Go to page 9 of 0 of blogs
9
Next page of blogs
Next ›
Last page of blogs
Last »
Title Search
Filter by Category
- Any -
Announcements
Consumer Spending
Director's Blog
Employment
Government
Gross Domestic Product
Healthcare
Income & Saving
Industries
International Trade & Investment
Investment in Fixed Assets
Local
National
New Projects
Prices & Inflation
Special Topics
State
Territories
Search
Quick Links
Economy at a Glance
News Releases
Release Schedule
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
Survey of Current Business
Archive
For Journalists
Additional Archives
Information on Previous Updates of the National and Regional Economic Accounts
Federal Recovery Programs and BEA Statistics
Data Archive
Previously Published/Impacted Statistics
Industry Tables No Longer Published
Media Contacts
News Media
Connie O'Connell
(301) 278-9003
Connie.OConnell@bea.gov
News Media
Thomas Dail
(301) 278-9003
Thomas.Dail@bea.gov
BEA Blog Archives
Download Acrobat Reader
Page last modified on 3/27/26
Bureau of Economic Analysis
4600 Silver Hill Road • Suitland, MD 20746
Contact Us
Working at BEA
Frequently Asked Questions
Our Policies
Privacy
Commitment to Scientific Integrity
Data Dissemination Practices
Open Data
USA.gov
Business USA
No FEAR Act
FOIA
U.S. Department of Commerce
Emergency Status
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
News Release Feed (RSS)
Sign up for Email Notifications