TARGET: Brookings Economy
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Brookings Institution Press | Brookings
URL: https://www.brookings.edu/all-books/brookings-institution-press/
INDEX_URL: https://www.brookings.edu/topic/economy/
ARTICLE_URL: https://www.brookings.edu/all-books/brookings-institution-press/
CANONICAL_URL: https://www.brookings.edu/all-books/brookings-institution-press/
PAGE_TITLE: Brookings Institution Press | Brookings
H1: Brookings Institution Press
PUBLISHED_AT: 
PAGE_TYPE: article
EXPECTED_LANGUAGE: en
DETECTED_LANGUAGE: en
CONTENT_WORD_COUNT: 543
EXTRACTION_WARNINGS: 

Brookings Institution Press
Brookings Institution Press publishes thought-provoking books that make a lasting impact on public policy.
Books
Brookings Institution Press
The Brookings Institution Press is the renowned publishing arm of the Brookings Institution, a leading think tank in Washington, D.C. Brookings and its scholars are known worldwide as a trusted resource for rigorous research and innovative ideas across fields such as foreign policy, American politics and governance, current affairs, metropolitan policy, economics, and development.
With a history dating back to 1916, publishing has always been a core part of the Brookings Institution’s mission. Initially focused on publishing institutional research reports and papers, BI Press has since grown into a respected scholarly press, producing influential peer-reviewed titles that inform critical policy discussions.
In 2025, BI Press partnered with Bloomsbury’s academic division whose mission is to publish works of excellence and originality that educate and inform. This collaboration enables us to share the research and analysis of scholars—both within and outside the Institution—to a diverse global audience of readers, researchers, students, and policymakers. Our catalog of thought-provoking books is available
here
.
Contact Us
Brookings Bookstore
Our on-site bookstore offers author autographed books as well as a variety of Brookings gift shop items. Call us with questions at 202-797-6429.
Media and Events
To request an interview with an author or to schedule an appearance or book event, email
[email protected]
. Check out our
For Media
page for additional resources.
Request a Review Copy
To request a review copy of a book, please submit your request via Bloomsbury Academic’s review copy request
form
.
Back to top
Author Resources
Manuscript Acquisitions
The Brookings Institution Press publishes books written by authors who are not otherwise affiliated with Brookings. These manuscripts should be analytical studies of important public policy issues written for a wide audience. Manuscripts accepted for consideration are subject to Brookings’ peer review procedures. Authors wishing to present a proposal should send a brief prospectus (including a description of the work and its intended audience), table of contents, introduction or sample chapter, expected length, projected schedule for completion of the manuscript, and a brief curriculum vitae. Complete manuscripts should not be sent unless invited.
Please note: We do not consider festschriften, memoirs, or unrevised doctoral dissertations.
Proposals should be sent to
[email protected]
.
Back to top
Permissions
Attribution and Permissions Guidelines
For authors, publishers, and educators seeking to reprint, translate, or reproduce original work from the Brookings Institution Press, please carefully
review our guidelines
to ensure a smooth permissions process and compliance with our policies.
If you’re unsure whether you need permission or how to properly attribute Brookings content, email us at
[email protected]
for guidance.
Back to top
Ordering and Customer Service
Contact information for sales orders or to request academic and/or review copies
Faculty and Academic Requests
If you are a faculty member looking for information on ordering exam or desk copies, please visit
Bloomsbury Academic
or email
[email protected]
.
If you wish to request permissions for academic use or alternative formats for students with disabilities, please email
[email protected]
.
Sales
Bloomsbury customer service
Bloomsbury sales contacts
Prices and Availability Dates
All prices and availability dates are subject to change without notice.
In Partnership With
Bloomsbury Academic
Bloomsbury Academic