TARGET: ECB Blog
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Enhancing climate analysis: new insights through data
URL: https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/blog/date/2026/html/ecb.blog20260115~259690fc9d.en.html

Enhancing climate analysis: new insights through data
Skip to:
Skip to
navigation
Skip to
content
Skip to
footer
EN
Български
Čeština
Dansk
Deutsch
Eλληνικά
English
Español
Eesti keel
Suomi
Français
Gaeilge
Hrvatski
Magyar
Italiano
Lietuvių
Latviešu
Malti
Nederlands
Polski
Português
Română
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
Svenska
Menu
Monetary policy & markets
Monetary policy & markets
Our monetary policy strategy, the tools we use and the impact they have
Overview of monetary policy and markets
Quick links
What is monetary policy?
Strategy review
Asset purchase programmes
Latest monetary policy press conference
19 March 2026
Introduction
Benefits of price stability
Scope of monetary policy
Transmission mechanism
Decisions, statements & accounts
Monetary policy strategy
Strategy review
Medium-term orientation
Two per cent inflation target
Economic, monetary and financial analysis
Economic analysis
Monetary and financial analysis
Instruments
Open market operations
TLTROs
Asset purchase programmes
Securities lending
Pandemic emergency purchase programme
Standing facilities
Minimum reserves
Two-tier system
International market operations
Euro central bank liquidity lines
Emergency liquidity assistance (ELA)
Liquidity analysis
Collateral
Eligibility criteria and assessment
Marketable assets
Non-marketable assets
List of eligible marketable assets
User guide
Collateral management
Eligible SSSs
Eligible links
Eligible triparty agents
Risk mitigation
ECAF
Risk control
Haircut categories
Valuation
Loan-level requirements
Data templates
Eligibility requirements
Frequently asked questions
Contacts
Structure of the euro area economy
Economic policy
Fiscal policies
External trade
Effective exchange rates
Financial structure
Financial markets
Financial intermediaries
Economic diversity
Labour market
Market contact groups
Bond market (BMCG)
Money market (MMCG)
Debt Issuance Market Contact Group (DIMCG)
ECB Operations managers group (ECB OMG)
Foreign exchange (FXCG)
Institutional Investor Dialogue (IID)
Monetary Analysis Contact Group (MACG)
Payments & financial stability
Payments & financial stability
Insights into our work on financial stability and payments and market infrastructures
Overview of payments and financial stability
Quick links
Digital euro
Payments news & events
Market contact groups
TARGET professional use documents and links
Latest Financial Stability Review
26 November 2025
Payments
TARGET Services
Shared features
T2
Facts and figures
Governance
T2S
Governance
Facts and figures
Pricing
TIPS
Cross-border payments
Governance
Facts and figures
Onboarding
ECMS
Pontes
Governance
TARGET professional use documents & links
Shared features documents & links
T2 documents & links
T2S documents & links
TIPS documents & links
ECMS documents & links
Pontes documents & links
Tokenisation and DLT
Appia
Exploratory work
Retail payments
Retail payments strategy
ECB as a catalyst
SEPA
Instant payments
Market contact groups
Collateral management harmonisation
SCoRE
Implementation
FAQ
AMI-SeCo
Cyber resilience
Financial market infrastructures
TIBER-EU
Euro Cyber Resilience Board
Oversight
Payment systems
TARGET2-Securities
Electronic payments
Securities settlement systems and central counterparties
Critical service providers
Correspondent and custodian banks
SecuRe Pay forum
Reserve management services
Key aspects
Range of services
Cash professionals
Cash handling
Authentication devices
Recirculation of banknotes
Common detector interface specifications
Banknote manufacturer accreditation
Financial stability
Introduction to financial stability
Macroprudential Measures
Financial stability contact groups
Statistics
Statistics
Access to all ECB statistics and background information
Overview of ECB statistics
Quick links
Key figures
ECB Data Portal
Statistical releases
PRESS RELEASE - ECB launches pilot project for research access to confidential statistical data
13 March 2025
Frequently accessed
Euro exchange rates
Key ECB interest rates
Euro short-term rate (€STR)
Interest rate benchmarks
Working group on euro risk-free rates
Inflation
Euro area yield curves
All statistics & background
All key statistics
All data services
Data reporting & standards
Governance and quality framework
Co-operation and standards
Banks’ data reporting
AnaCredit
AnaCredit Q&A
Public consultations
Banking industry dialogue on ESCB statistics and integrated reporting
SDMX – statistical data exchange model
INEXDA - granular data network
The euro
The euro
All you need to know about our common currency
Overview of the euro
Quick links
Cash professionals
Banknote and coins
statistics
Euro exchange
rates
Redesign process of our future banknotes
Digital euro
What it is
Digital euro and privacy
How it works
Why we need it
Innovation platform
Pilot
Timeline and progress
In-depth information
Governance and stakeholder engagement
Technical documents and research
Scheme rulebook
Frequently asked questions
Cash
The Eurosystem cash strategy
The role of cash
Issuance and circulation
Access to and acceptance of cash
Frequently asked questions
Banknotes
Future banknotes
Redesign process
Current banknotes
Denominations
Design elements
Security features
Anti-counterfeiting
Banknote production and stocks
Damaged and inked-stained banknotes
Environment, health and safety
Product environmental footprint
Research and development
Images and reproduction rules
Information and training materials
Coins
€2
€1
50 cent
20 cent
10 cent
5 cent
2 cent
1 cent
Common sides
€2 commemorative coins
Security features
Collector coins
Joining the euro area
Bulgaria (2026)
Croatia (2023)
Lithuania (2015)
Latvia (2014)
Estonia (2011)
Slovakia (2009)
Cyprus (2008)
Malta (2008)
Slovenia (2007)
Initial changeover (2002)
Exchanging national cash
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Ireland
Latvia
Italy
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
The Netherlands
Portugal
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Visually impaired people
Research
Research
In-depth studies and expert analyses covering diverse topics and fields
Overview of ECB research
Quick links
Conferences & seminars
Opportunities for researchers
Research Bulletin
Economic research
Research agenda
Monetary policy, strategy and implementation
Fiscal policy and governance within EMU
International macro and finance
Real sector and microeconomic analysis
Forecasting and business cycle analysis
Macro-finance, systemic risk and macroprudential policy
Financial institutions, microprudential policy, financial markets and payments
Opportunities for researchers
Wim Duisenberg Fellowship
Regular Research Visitors
Lamfalussy Fellowship
Summer Research Graduate Programme
Student Research Traineeship Programme
Legal Research
Legal conferences and seminars
Legal Research Programme
Research papers
Papers by authors
ECB researchers
Research networks
News & publications
News & Publications
Browse all news & publications
News
Press releases
Statistical releases
Speeches
Interviews
The ECB Blog
Podcasts & webcasts
Payments news & events
Press hub
Publications
Governing Council decisions
Monetary policy decisions
Other decisions
Monetary policy accounts
Economic Bulletin
Articles
Focus
Monthly Bulletin
Macroeconomic projections
Annual reports & financial statements
Annual Report
Annual Accounts
Eurosystem balance sheet
Monetary policy operations
Weekly financial statements
Disaggregated data
Financial stability publications
Financial Stability Review
Special features & boxes
Macroprudential Bulletin
Research publications
Research Bulletin
Working papers
Discussion papers
Occasional papers
Legal working papers
Statistics papers
Other publications
Letters to MEPs
Convergence Report
International Role of the Euro
Events & calendars
Monetary policy press conference
Monetary policy statements
Monetary policy statements at a glance
Conferences & seminars
Forum on Central Banking
Young Economist Prize
Past editions
Civil society engagement
Calendars
Weekly schedule
Meetings of the Governing Council and the General Council
Statistical calendars
Money, banking and financial markets
Euro area economic and financial developments by institutional sector
External transactions and positions
Prices, output, demand and labour
Government finance
Supervisory and prudential statistics
Eurosystem's tender operations
Reserve maintenance period
ECB banking supervision
About us
About us
All about us
Our leadership
Executive Board
Governing Council
General Council
Supervisory Board
Our organisation
ECB, ESCB and the Eurosystem
ECB mission
Eurosystem mission
Strategic intents
Organisational principles
Our tasks and responsibilities
Monetary policy
Statistics
Financial stability and macroprudential policy
Our tasks
Strategy
Institutional framework
Banknotes
Payments & securities
European relations
European cooperation
EMU economic governance
International affairs
International relations and analysis
International central bank cooperation
Foreign reserves and own funds
Foreign exchange operations
Organisation chart of the ECB
Capital subscription
Corporate governance
Eurosystem financial literacy network
Our values
Independence
Transparency
Accountability
Ethics – working with integrity
Ethics Network of Multilateral Organizations (ENMO)
Our history, arts and culture
Our history
25 years of the ECB
Economic and Monetary Union
EU enlargement
European Union
Archives
Committee of Governors
European Monetary Cooperation Fund
Delors Committee
European Monetary Institute
European Central Bank
Arts and culture
Our legal framework
EUR-Lex - Frequently asked questions
Institutional framework
Climate change and the ECB
Our climate and nature plan
Climate-related financial disclosures
Managing climate-related risks
Supporting the green transition
Fostering wider action
Our approach
Environmental protection
Climate Insurance Protection Gap
Sanctions imposed by the ECB
Procurement
Tenders
Archive
Electronic tendering system
Access to documents
Public Register of Documents
Contacts
Address
ECB public holidays
ECB & You
ECB & You
All about ECB & You
Explainers
Key things to know about the ECB
ECB and beyond
Our currency, the euro
Making payments
Monetary policy
Unconventional monetary policy instruments
Banking supervision
Climate change and the ECB
Test your knowledge
Youth initiatives
Girls' IT Bootcamp
Financial literacy in Europe
The gender gap in financial literacy
Everyone needs stability
ECB & You broadcasts
ECB in Frankfurt
Ask us
Visit us
Main building
Careers
Careers
All about careers
Vacancies
Who we are
About the ECB
Meet our people
Life in Frankfurt
Why we value diversity
Women@ECB
Diversity networks
What we offer
Benefits & rewards
Contract types
Fixed-term
Short-term
ESCB/IO
Other
Traineeship
Graduate programme
ECB Scholarship for Women
ECB Scholarship for Ukrainian graduates
How you can join us
How to apply
How we hire
You have been selected, what next?
Fixed-term employee
Short-term employee
Trainee
Cost-free secondee
FAQs
Search
Menu
ANYTIME
PAST MONTH
PAST YEAR
Search Options
Image Preview
Sort by
ANYTIME
PAST MONTH
PAST YEAR
Suggestions
Home
Media
Explainers
Research & Publications
Statistics
Monetary Policy
The €uro
Payments & Markets
Careers
Suggestions
Sort by
Relevance
Date
Pietro Bellamio
Data Science Analyst ∙ Statistics, Economic Statistics
Catarina De Melo Branco
Graduate Programme Participant ∙ Statistics, Economic Statistics
Julika Herzberg
Economist-Statistician ∙ Statistics, Economic Statistics
Malgorzata Osiewicz
Senior Team Lead - Economist-Statistician ∙ Statistics, Analytical Credit Data
Sofia Papadopoulos
Trainee ∙ Statistics, Securities Data
Eva Marques Vieira Da Silva Pereira
Research Analyst ∙ Statistics, Analytical Credit Data
Dimitra Theleriti
Lead Economist-Statistician ∙ Statistics, Securities Data
Caroline Willeke
Deputy Director General ∙ Statistics
THE ECB BLOG
Enhancing climate analysis: new insights through data
15 January 2026
By Pietro Bellamio, Catarina De Melo Branco, Julika Herzberg, Małgorzata Osiewicz, Sofia Papadopoulos, Eva Pereira, Dimitra Theleriti and Caroline Willeke
The ESCB has strengthened its climate indicators, introducing new breakdowns of sustainable bonds, data on how inflation affects banks’ carbon intensity metrics, and improved data and models assessing physical risks. This ECB Blog post offers a quick overview of the enhancements.
Statistical climate indicators are continuously evolving. The European System of Central Banks (ESCB) statisticians have recently introduced further improvements that
include more detailed information on sustainable debt securities, with new breakdowns by maturity, interest rate type and currency. In addition to this, we analyse the main drivers of carbon footprint of financial institutions, such as portfolio changes, decarbonisation, company revenue and inflation.
With the help of improved damage estimation and newly available data, in this blog post we show evidence of rising physical climate risks. We also explore selected enhancements and demonstrate how advanced statistical techniques and new data sources can provide further insights into climate analysis.
These are just a few examples. A full list of enhancements of our climate indicators is available in the
technical annex
. The data, together with the methodology and more detailed results, are available on our
climate-related indicators webpage
.
How does the currency of issuance vary across different sustainable debt securities types in the euro area?
Chart 1
Euro area issuances of sustainable debt securities by currency of denomination
(EUR billions, outstanding amounts at market value)
Source: Centralised Securities Database (CSDB).
Notes: green: debt securities where the proceeds are used to finance projects with clear environmental benefits. Social: debt securities where the proceeds are used to finance projects that address social issues and seek to achieve positive social outcomes. Sustainability-linked: debt securities for which the financial and/or structural characteristics can vary depending on whether the issuer achieves predefined sustainability/ESG objectives. Sustainability: debt securities where the proceeds are used to finance a combination of both green and social projects. The reference period is June 2025.
Let’s start with the new data on sustainable debt securities, including green bonds. This data provides information on the proceeds raised to finance sustainable projects, a relevant factor in funding the green transition, while these bonds do not directly lead to a reduction in carbon emissions. They also show the demand for such products as investment opportunities. Most sustainable bonds issued in the euro area are denominated in euro. However, there are notable variations in the share of non-euro-denominated issuances across the different types of sustainable debt securities.
Green and sustainability bonds closely mirror the overall trend observed for all euro area debt securities, of which 7.3% and 12.8% respectively are issued in non-euro currencies (compared with 10% for all euro area debt securities). By contrast, sustainability-linked and social bonds display a far higher proportion of issuances in non-euro currencies, accounting for 20.5% and 23.7% respectively.
We can also see these developments in the holdings of sustainable debt securities issued by euro area residents: non-euro area investors hold 34% of the social bonds, 25% of the sustainability-linked and sustainability bonds, and only 18% of the green bonds issued by euro area residents (June 2025).
These figures suggest that euro area issuers of sustainability-linked and social bonds seem to target investors in international capital markets to a greater degree, with the issuers of social bonds being particularly successful in doing so. Meanwhile, the green bond market within the euro area is particularly robust, supported by well-established frameworks, such as the EU taxonomy and the European Green Bond Standard. These initiatives have fostered strong local demand for euro-denominated green bonds.
Can inflation lead to underestimating carbon intensity?
Banks are making progress in greening their loan and securities portfolios. To monitor this progress, it is crucial to understand what drives change in the carbon intensity of bank’s portfolios. Carbon intensity refers to the amount of emissions produced relative to an entity’s economic size. The carbon intensity of the bank’s credit portfolio represents the emissions generated by the economic activities of the bank’s customers that are financed through its loans. This metric focuses specifically on the portion of the customers’ activities attributable to the bank’s financing, rather than the customers’ overall emissions.
In our analysis, company revenues serve as the key proxy for economic size, as it is the most widely used measure. However, not every decline in carbon intensity necessarily indicates a greening of the portfolio. Company revenues are measured in nominal terms and an increase in revenues (while emissions remain constant) may overstate the actual decline in carbon intensity when considered in real terms. When we track trends over time, it is essential to adjust growth in nominal revenues for inflation. Chart 2 shows that part of the year-on-year decline in portfolio carbon intensity is due to inflation; however, this is a small part compared with that attributable to real revenues. Still, in 2022 and 2023 inflation contributed to the decrease in carbon intensity as much as, or even more than, emissions reduction, with the largest impact in 2022, coinciding with the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (
HICP
) inflation trend in the euro area over this period. This shows that ignoring the role of inflation in the economy would lead to underestimating actual carbon intensity.
Looking ahead, we will continue refining the methodology on inflation adjustment, along with other enhancements in the area of indirect emissions and forward-looking indicators.
Chart 2
Breakdown of annual changes in weighted average carbon intensity components of euro area banks’ securities portfolios, corporate group level, and HICP
a) Breakdown of annual changes in weighted average carbon intensity and HICP
b) Weighted average carbon intensity (WACI)
(left-hand scale: change in tonnes of Scope 1 CO2 emissions eq. per million EUR of revenue compared with the previous year and tonnes of Scope 1 CO2 emissions eq. per million EUR of revenue; right-hand scale: year-on-year percentage change)
(tonnes of Scope 1 CO2 emissions eq. per million EUR of revenue)
Sources: ESCB calculations are based on data from the
analytical credit dataset (AnaCredit)
,
Register of Institutions and Affiliates Data (RIAD)
,
Securities Holdings Statistics by Sector (SHSS)
, Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) and
HICP
.
Notes: Securities include listed shares and debt securities. WACI is adjusted for inflation and exchange rate effects. Company revenues are adjusted for inflation using Gross Value Added (GVA) deflators from International Data Cooperation (IDCM) and National Accounts by Industry (INA) series. GVA reflects the contribution of a company, or sector to the economy, capturing the value of goods and services produced minus the cost of inputs. Using GVA deflators ensures that the adjustment for inflation is specific to the sector in which the company operates. For illustration, the chart presents the broader inflation measure - the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) - reflecting general inflation trends, while remaining consistent with the trajectory of the selected deflators. Portfolio weight component and exchange rate component not shown. For more information, please refer to the
statistical paper
and the
technical annex
.
Do newer hazard models alter physical risk assessment?
The recent publication of the statistical climate indicators introduces enhancements to physical risk assessment, improving hazard estimates and better capturing the assets at risk from natural disasters. We illustrate their impacts with the example of windstorm indicators.
The data benefit from two key improvements. First, we included newly available hazard data. For windstorms, the estimations were prepared by ESCB statisticians using the latest available satellite-based data, ensuring transparency and control over the methodology. Second, we enhanced the identification of physical assets at risk from natural disasters by more accurately determining their locations and values. This was possible through the collaboration with central banks to improve information on company addresses and standardisation of address fields, such as street names, house numbers, and postal codes, as well as balance sheet details, incorporating richer data on fixed assets and including inventories.
The results indicate that northern and coastal regions of Europe face the highest risk from windstorms (Chart 3, panel a). Chart 3 demonstrates the impact of the enhancements (panel b), which presents the expected loss indicators, the normalised exposure at risk (NEAR) and collateral-adjusted exposure at risk (CEAR) indicators, calculated using different sets of data. Incorporating newer datasets and updated climate models increases expected losses more than threefold. A further increase is observed when we add inventories to the assessment: expected losses rise by 22% for NEAR, which represents the baseline indicators, and by 26% for CEAR, which also accounts for collateral pledged with the loans (for further details on the indicators, see the
statistical paper
and
technical annex
).
Looking ahead, we plan to regularly update our datasets with the latest information from climate models. We will also continue refining the methodologies, enhancing the alignment between climate science and decision-making in the financial sector.
Chart 3
Enhanced windstorm dataset and its impact on the expected loss indicators
a) Wind speed (m/s), 100-year return period
b) Expected loss indicators: NEAR and CEAR for loan portfolios of euro area banks
(m/s)
(EUR billions)
Sources: ESCB calculations based on data from
AnaCredit
,
RIAD
, and Copernicus (
Windstorm Information Centre
and
Enhanced Windstorm Service
).
Notes: Portfolio exposures cover loan portfolios of euro area financial institutions vis-à-vis non-financial corporations. For more information, please refer to the
statistical paper
and the
technical annex
. Expected loss indicators are based on loan portfolios, with the December 2022 reference period for the WISC indicator and December 2024 for the EWS indicators.
Statistical methods bridge data gaps
Thanks to harmonised methodology and data sources, the climate indicators ensure consistency and comparability across the euro area. That addresses a key requirement of data users and policymakers. As sustainability reporting remains limited, this effort demonstrates how leveraging statistical techniques can bridge data gaps as we wait for gradual improvements in available data. The work will continue, incorporating advancements in climate and statistical modelling, as well as new data sources.
The views expressed in each blog entry are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the views of the European Central Bank and the Eurosystem.
Check out
The ECB Blog and
subscribe
for future posts.
For topics relating to banking supervision, why not have a look at
The Supervision Blog
?
Related topics
Statistics and data
Climate change
Disclaimer
Please note that related topic tags are currently available for selected content only.
Are you happy with this page?
Yes
No
What made you unhappy?
Page not working
Information not useful
Design not attractive
Something else
Thank you for letting us know!
Useful links
About us
Work with us
Explainers
Press photos
Contacts
Where to find us
Using our site
Disclaimer & Copyright
Technical updates
Responsible disclosure
Corporate Policies
Data Protection
Privacy statement for the website
Cookies policy
Accessibility statement
Language policy
Site directory
Copyright 2026,
European Central Bank
Follow us
Our website uses cookies
We use functional cookies to store user preferences; analytics cookies to improve website performance; third-party cookies set by third-party services integrated into the website. You have the choice to accept or reject them. For more information or to review your preference on the cookies and server logs we use, we invite you to:
Read our privacy statement
Learn more about how we use cookies
I understand and I accept the use of
cookies
I do not accept the use of
cookies
Thank you!
Thank you!
We have updated our privacy policy
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided
by cookies.
See what has changed in our privacy policy
I understand and I accept the use of
cookies
I do not accept the use of
cookies
Your cookie preference has expired
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided
by cookies.
Learn more about how we use cookies
I understand and I accept the use of
cookies
I do not accept the use of
cookies
This feature requires cookies.
Modify