TARGET: ECB Blog
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: From headlines to hard data: mapping the uneven impact of geopolitical risk in Europe
URL: https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/blog/date/2025/html/ecb.blog20251128~fb427b2a3c.en.html

From headlines to hard data: mapping the uneven impact of geopolitical risk in Europe
Skip to:
Skip to
navigation
Skip to
content
Skip to
footer
EN
Български
Čeština
Dansk
Deutsch
Eλληνικά
English
Español
Eesti keel
Suomi
Français
Gaeilge
Hrvatski
Magyar
Italiano
Lietuvių
Latviešu
Malti
Nederlands
Polski
Português
Română
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
Svenska
Menu
Monetary policy & markets
Monetary policy & markets
Our monetary policy strategy, the tools we use and the impact they have
Overview of monetary policy and markets
Quick links
What is monetary policy?
Strategy review
Asset purchase programmes
Latest monetary policy press conference
19 March 2026
Introduction
Benefits of price stability
Scope of monetary policy
Transmission mechanism
Decisions, statements & accounts
Monetary policy strategy
Strategy review
Medium-term orientation
Two per cent inflation target
Economic, monetary and financial analysis
Economic analysis
Monetary and financial analysis
Instruments
Open market operations
TLTROs
Asset purchase programmes
Securities lending
Pandemic emergency purchase programme
Standing facilities
Minimum reserves
Two-tier system
International market operations
Euro central bank liquidity lines
Emergency liquidity assistance (ELA)
Liquidity analysis
Collateral
Eligibility criteria and assessment
Marketable assets
Non-marketable assets
List of eligible marketable assets
User guide
Collateral management
Eligible SSSs
Eligible links
Eligible triparty agents
Risk mitigation
ECAF
Risk control
Haircut categories
Valuation
Loan-level requirements
Data templates
Eligibility requirements
Frequently asked questions
Contacts
Structure of the euro area economy
Economic policy
Fiscal policies
External trade
Effective exchange rates
Financial structure
Financial markets
Financial intermediaries
Economic diversity
Labour market
Market contact groups
Bond market (BMCG)
Money market (MMCG)
Debt Issuance Market Contact Group (DIMCG)
ECB Operations managers group (ECB OMG)
Foreign exchange (FXCG)
Institutional Investor Dialogue (IID)
Monetary Analysis Contact Group (MACG)
Payments & financial stability
Payments & financial stability
Insights into our work on financial stability and payments and market infrastructures
Overview of payments and financial stability
Quick links
Digital euro
Payments news & events
Market contact groups
TARGET professional use documents and links
Latest Financial Stability Review
26 November 2025
Payments
TARGET Services
Shared features
T2
Facts and figures
Governance
T2S
Governance
Facts and figures
Pricing
TIPS
Cross-border payments
Governance
Facts and figures
Onboarding
ECMS
Pontes
Governance
TARGET professional use documents & links
Shared features documents & links
T2 documents & links
T2S documents & links
TIPS documents & links
ECMS documents & links
Pontes documents & links
Tokenisation and DLT
Appia
Exploratory work
Retail payments
Retail payments strategy
ECB as a catalyst
SEPA
Instant payments
Market contact groups
Collateral management harmonisation
SCoRE
Implementation
FAQ
AMI-SeCo
Cyber resilience
Financial market infrastructures
TIBER-EU
Euro Cyber Resilience Board
Oversight
Payment systems
TARGET2-Securities
Electronic payments
Securities settlement systems and central counterparties
Critical service providers
Correspondent and custodian banks
SecuRe Pay forum
Reserve management services
Key aspects
Range of services
Cash professionals
Cash handling
Authentication devices
Recirculation of banknotes
Common detector interface specifications
Banknote manufacturer accreditation
Financial stability
Introduction to financial stability
Macroprudential Measures
Financial stability contact groups
Statistics
Statistics
Access to all ECB statistics and background information
Overview of ECB statistics
Quick links
Key figures
ECB Data Portal
Statistical releases
PRESS RELEASE - ECB launches pilot project for research access to confidential statistical data
13 March 2025
Frequently accessed
Euro exchange rates
Key ECB interest rates
Euro short-term rate (€STR)
Interest rate benchmarks
Working group on euro risk-free rates
Inflation
Euro area yield curves
All statistics & background
All key statistics
All data services
Data reporting & standards
Governance and quality framework
Co-operation and standards
Banks’ data reporting
AnaCredit
AnaCredit Q&A
Public consultations
Banking industry dialogue on ESCB statistics and integrated reporting
SDMX – statistical data exchange model
INEXDA - granular data network
The euro
The euro
All you need to know about our common currency
Overview of the euro
Quick links
Cash professionals
Banknote and coins
statistics
Euro exchange
rates
Redesign process of our future banknotes
Digital euro
What it is
Digital euro and privacy
How it works
Why we need it
Innovation platform
Pilot
Timeline and progress
In-depth information
Governance and stakeholder engagement
Technical documents and research
Scheme rulebook
Frequently asked questions
Cash
The Eurosystem cash strategy
The role of cash
Issuance and circulation
Access to and acceptance of cash
Frequently asked questions
Banknotes
Future banknotes
Redesign process
Current banknotes
Denominations
Design elements
Security features
Anti-counterfeiting
Banknote production and stocks
Damaged and inked-stained banknotes
Environment, health and safety
Product environmental footprint
Research and development
Images and reproduction rules
Information and training materials
Coins
€2
€1
50 cent
20 cent
10 cent
5 cent
2 cent
1 cent
Common sides
€2 commemorative coins
Security features
Collector coins
Joining the euro area
Bulgaria (2026)
Croatia (2023)
Lithuania (2015)
Latvia (2014)
Estonia (2011)
Slovakia (2009)
Cyprus (2008)
Malta (2008)
Slovenia (2007)
Initial changeover (2002)
Exchanging national cash
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Ireland
Latvia
Italy
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
The Netherlands
Portugal
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Visually impaired people
Research
Research
In-depth studies and expert analyses covering diverse topics and fields
Overview of ECB research
Quick links
Conferences & seminars
Opportunities for researchers
Research Bulletin
Economic research
Research agenda
Monetary policy, strategy and implementation
Fiscal policy and governance within EMU
International macro and finance
Real sector and microeconomic analysis
Forecasting and business cycle analysis
Macro-finance, systemic risk and macroprudential policy
Financial institutions, microprudential policy, financial markets and payments
Opportunities for researchers
Wim Duisenberg Fellowship
Regular Research Visitors
Lamfalussy Fellowship
Summer Research Graduate Programme
Student Research Traineeship Programme
Legal Research
Legal conferences and seminars
Legal Research Programme
Research papers
Papers by authors
ECB researchers
Research networks
News & publications
News & Publications
Browse all news & publications
News
Press releases
Statistical releases
Speeches
Interviews
The ECB Blog
Podcasts & webcasts
Payments news & events
Press hub
Publications
Governing Council decisions
Monetary policy decisions
Other decisions
Monetary policy accounts
Economic Bulletin
Articles
Focus
Monthly Bulletin
Macroeconomic projections
Annual reports & financial statements
Annual Report
Annual Accounts
Eurosystem balance sheet
Monetary policy operations
Weekly financial statements
Disaggregated data
Financial stability publications
Financial Stability Review
Special features & boxes
Macroprudential Bulletin
Research publications
Research Bulletin
Working papers
Discussion papers
Occasional papers
Legal working papers
Statistics papers
Other publications
Letters to MEPs
Convergence Report
International Role of the Euro
Events & calendars
Monetary policy press conference
Monetary policy statements
Monetary policy statements at a glance
Conferences & seminars
Forum on Central Banking
Young Economist Prize
Past editions
Civil society engagement
Calendars
Weekly schedule
Meetings of the Governing Council and the General Council
Statistical calendars
Money, banking and financial markets
Euro area economic and financial developments by institutional sector
External transactions and positions
Prices, output, demand and labour
Government finance
Supervisory and prudential statistics
Eurosystem's tender operations
Reserve maintenance period
ECB banking supervision
About us
About us
All about us
Our leadership
Executive Board
Governing Council
General Council
Supervisory Board
Our organisation
ECB, ESCB and the Eurosystem
ECB mission
Eurosystem mission
Strategic intents
Organisational principles
Our tasks and responsibilities
Monetary policy
Statistics
Financial stability and macroprudential policy
Our tasks
Strategy
Institutional framework
Banknotes
Payments & securities
European relations
European cooperation
EMU economic governance
International affairs
International relations and analysis
International central bank cooperation
Foreign reserves and own funds
Foreign exchange operations
Organisation chart of the ECB
Capital subscription
Corporate governance
Eurosystem financial literacy network
Our values
Independence
Transparency
Accountability
Ethics – working with integrity
Ethics Network of Multilateral Organizations (ENMO)
Our history, arts and culture
Our history
25 years of the ECB
Economic and Monetary Union
EU enlargement
European Union
Archives
Committee of Governors
European Monetary Cooperation Fund
Delors Committee
European Monetary Institute
European Central Bank
Arts and culture
Our legal framework
EUR-Lex - Frequently asked questions
Institutional framework
Climate change and the ECB
Our climate and nature plan
Climate-related financial disclosures
Managing climate-related risks
Supporting the green transition
Fostering wider action
Our approach
Environmental protection
Climate Insurance Protection Gap
Sanctions imposed by the ECB
Procurement
Tenders
Archive
Electronic tendering system
Access to documents
Public Register of Documents
Contacts
Address
ECB public holidays
ECB & You
ECB & You
All about ECB & You
Explainers
Key things to know about the ECB
ECB and beyond
Our currency, the euro
Making payments
Monetary policy
Unconventional monetary policy instruments
Banking supervision
Climate change and the ECB
Test your knowledge
Youth initiatives
Girls' IT Bootcamp
Financial literacy in Europe
The gender gap in financial literacy
Everyone needs stability
ECB & You broadcasts
ECB in Frankfurt
Ask us
Visit us
Main building
Careers
Careers
All about careers
Vacancies
Who we are
About the ECB
Meet our people
Life in Frankfurt
Why we value diversity
Women@ECB
Diversity networks
What we offer
Benefits & rewards
Contract types
Fixed-term
Short-term
ESCB/IO
Other
Traineeship
Graduate programme
ECB Scholarship for Women
ECB Scholarship for Ukrainian graduates
How you can join us
How to apply
How we hire
You have been selected, what next?
Fixed-term employee
Short-term employee
Trainee
Cost-free secondee
FAQs
Search
Menu
ANYTIME
PAST MONTH
PAST YEAR
Search Options
Image Preview
Sort by
ANYTIME
PAST MONTH
PAST YEAR
Suggestions
Home
Media
Explainers
Research & Publications
Statistics
Monetary Policy
The €uro
Payments & Markets
Careers
Suggestions
Sort by
Relevance
Date
Martin Bijsterbosch
Deputy Head of Division ∙ Economics, Euro Area External Sector and Euro Adoption
Matteo Falagiarda
Principal Economist · Economics, Euro Area External Sector
Lucia Žídeková
External
THE ECB BLOG
From headlines to hard data: mapping the uneven impact of geopolitical risk in Europe
28 November 2025
By Martin Bijsterbosch, Matteo Falagiarda and Lucia Žídeková
Geopolitical tensions such as the war in Ukraine have shaken Europe’s economies. Understanding the economic impact of such shocks is crucial for monetary policy. This ECB Blog post presents a news-based indicator that tracks country-level geopolitical risk.
Geopolitical tensions around the world have increasingly affected European economies and slowed down growth. Armed conflicts and other tensions between states and political actors can disrupt supply chains, heighten uncertainty, weigh on consumer and business sentiment and fuel financial market volatility.
[
1
]
All of this comes at a cost for our economies, while also affecting the transmission of monetary policy. However, measuring geopolitical risk and its economic consequences is no easy task. This blog post presents a new indicator for mapping country-level geopolitical risk. The indicator is then used to measure the varying ways in which the geopolitical shock stemming from Russia’s February 2022 invasion of Ukraine has affected economies across Europe.
Measuring geopolitical risk
In response to the ongoing geopolitical tensions worldwide, several new tracking tools have been put forward in various studies. One leading contribution, by Caldara and Iacoviello (2022), uses US newspaper sources to map the emergence and evolution of risks both globally and for the major economies. Yet it reflects a fundamentally US-centric perspective on the geopolitical risks affecting these countries.
Meanwhile, other approaches typically either focus only on a subset of the large EU economies or are country-specific. Until recently, no single contribution had offered comprehensive coverage of all of the EU countries based on domestic news sources. Our indicator addresses this blind spot by providing an EU-wide, domestically anchored view of geopolitical risk.
So how do we go about measuring geopolitical risk?
In line with the definition provided by Caldara and Iacoviello (2022), we understand geopolitical risk to mean “the threat, realisation, and escalation of adverse events associated with wars, terrorism, and any tensions among states and political actors that affect the peaceful course of international relations”.
[
2
]
We also adopt a similar text-based methodology but extend it to capture these developments from a European perspective. To this end we draw on domestic news sources for all EU countries. Specifically, we use the English-language coverage of leading EU newspapers and agencies to detect and track tensions. This yields a more granular and regionally grounded measure of geopolitical risk in Europe.
The indicator is based on a dictionary of keywords and has been constructed using an automated text search. The keywords cover a wide range of geopolitical risk-related terms. The search terms combine references to
war
,
conflict
,
invasion
,
terrorism
,
military buildup
and
nuclear threat
with words expressing
tension
,
threat
,
risk
or
crisis
. Non-geopolitical references (such as film titles, sporting events or historical anniversaries) have been systematically excluded. Thanks to this design, the indicator is able to capture how the media covers both the outbreak and the escalation of geopolitical events.
Our indicator depicts the monthly volume of articles referencing adverse geopolitical developments as a share of the total number of articles published. It shows how perceived geopolitical risk has varied across countries and over time, closely tracking the major geopolitical events in Europe over the last two decades (Chart 1). For example, before the Ukraine war central and eastern European (CEE) countries generally faced lower geopolitical risk than other EU nations. Since February 2022, however, they have been among the most affected.
[
3
]
Chart 1
Geopolitical risk indicator
(percentage of articles referencing adverse geopolitical developments relative to the total number of articles published)
Sources: ECB calculations.
Notes: The geopolitical risk indicator is constructed following the methodology of Caldara and Iacoviello (2022). Using a dictionary of keywords similar to those used in the original study, an automated text search method is applied to a selection of leading domestic newspapers and major news agencies from EU countries, retrieved via Factiva. The indicator is computed monthly as the share of articles referencing adverse geopolitical developments relative to the total number of articles published. This approach adapts the original framework to a European context, providing a localised measure of geopolitical risk as reflected in domestic media coverage.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 represented a major geopolitical shock – the largest perceived geopolitical shock for at least 20 years. The invasion compounded already high inflationary pressures, dented consumer and business sentiment, increased uncertainty and triggered volatility in financial markets. Internationally, it disrupted trade and financial flows.
Also, it contributed to market fragmentation and put already stressed supply chains under further strain. While the impact of these risks varied across countries, our indicator shows that the perceived risks were greater in regions closer to the conflict (Chart 2, panel a) and in countries with stronger economic and trade ties to Russia before the war (Chart 2, panel b).
CEE countries were particularly affected, in part due to their reliance on energy-intensive production, the high share of food and energy in their household spending, their economic openness, their integration into global supply chains and their pre-war trade and financial links with Russia. Austria, Finland and Sweden also displayed elevated geopolitical risk.
For Finland and Sweden, this was probably due to their proximity to Russia and their limited protection from the conflict before joining NATO. In Austria’s case, it could also stem from the country’s historical neutrality and the absence of a collective defence alliance (it is not a member of NATO).
Chart 2
Geopolitical risk, regional exposure and energy dependence
(panel a: x-axis: distance of the capital to Moscow in km; y-axis: average geopolitical risk indicator since Feb. 2022; panel b: x-axis: pre-war oil and gas dependence on Russia as a %; y-axis: average GRI since Feb. 2022)
a) Proximity to the Ukraine war
b) Pre-war dependence on Russian energy
Sources: Eurostat and authors’ calculations.
Notes: The country indicators are normalised to a baseline value of 100 for the period from January 2014 to July 2025. Panel b): Import dependency on oil, petroleum products and natural gas from Russia, calculated as a composite indicator. For each fuel (crude oil and petroleum products, natural gas), import dependency is measured as the ratio of net imports (imports minus exports) to gross available energy of that fuel (2015–2020 average). The composite indicator is obtained by weighting each fuel-specific dependency rate by its share in total energy.
How does geopolitical risk affect Europe’s economies?
The war in Ukraine and its broader geopolitical ramifications have had significant and heterogeneous effects across European economies. To capture these dynamics, we incorporated the geopolitical risk indicator into macroeconomic models that include both domestic and global economic and financial variables. The results show that geopolitical risk shocks had a substantial impact on real GDP, investment, exports and inflation between 2022 and 2024 (Chart 3). Investment was hit particularly hard, with a drop of around three percentage points in CEE countries. This shows that greater geopolitical uncertainty makes firms more cautious by driving up risk premia and discouraging long-term investment plans.
Geopolitical risks also played a significant role in driving inflation higher between 2022 and 2024. This finding is consistent with the cost-push interpretation of economic shocks.
According to this theory, heightened geopolitical tensions disrupt supply chains and push up production and energy costs. And this contributes to higher prices. At the same time, geopolitical tensions can also lower inflation by weighing on confidence, tightening financial conditions and dampening both domestic and global demand. Although the overall impact of these effects can vary, our findings suggest that the factors pushing prices up outweigh those pulling them down.
[
4
]
CEE countries have been more affected by geopolitical risks than the euro area overall. Interestingly, there is little difference between CEE countries that form part of the euro area and those that do not, highlighting the entire region’s vulnerability to geopolitical disruptions.
Unlike in the euro area as a whole, geopolitical shocks in CEE countries had a bigger impact on exports than on investment. This is largely due to their strong connections to global trade and supply chains, their reliance on external demand and their pre-war economic ties with Russia. As many of these connections have been disrupted by the war in Ukraine, the export sectors in CEE countries are particularly sensitive to these geopolitical challenges.
Chart 3
Economic impact of the geopolitical shock  stemming from the Ukraine war beyond long-term trends
(percentage points)
Source: ECB calculations.
Notes: Cumulative contribution of geopolitical risk shocks to detrended variables over the period 2022-2024. Historical decomposition based on region-specific VAR models estimated on quarterly data covering the period 2004-2024. Endogenous variables include the geopolitical risk indicator, real GDP, real investment, real exports and HICP. Exogenous variables comprise a financial volatility index (VIX), global energy prices and a linear trend. Geopolitical risk shocks are identified via a set of narrative and sign restrictions.
Tracking geopolitical risk: an economic imperative
Geopolitical shocks, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine, have had a profound and uneven impact on European economies. Given their geographical proximity to the conflict, their economic openness and their pre-war economic linkages with Russia, CEE countries have proven particularly vulnerable.
Understanding the economic impact of geopolitical shocks is crucial for economic policymakers and central banks. This will enable them to craft targeted and timely responses to mitigate adverse effects and support economic resilience. For Europe, mapping geopolitical risk and tracking its repercussions is no longer a choice. It is an economic imperative.
The views expressed in each blog entry are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the views of the European Central Bank and the Eurosystem.
Check out The ECB Blog
and
subscribe
for future posts.
For topics relating to banking supervision, why not have a look at
The Supervision Blog
?
For an early assessment of the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on global stock markets, see Chiţu, L., Eichler, E., McQuade, P. and Ferrari Minnesso, M. (2022), “
How do markets respond to war and geopolitics?
”
ECB Blog
, 28 September.
Caldara, D. and Iacoviello, M. (2022), “
Measuring geopolitical risk
”,
American Economic Review
, Vol. 112, No 4, pp. 1194-1225.
The CEE countries in this blog post comprise Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. For further analysis of the drivers and implications of higher inflation in euro area CEE countries, see Falagiarda, M. (2024), “
Inflation in the eastern euro area: reasons and risks
”,
ECB Blog
, 10 January.
It is also important to note that the model controls for global energy prices, so the estimated impact of geopolitical risk mainly reflects effects beyond those associated with energy-price movements, such as supply-chain disruptions, higher risk premia and precautionary increases in price mark-ups.
Related topics
Monetary policy
Inflation
Financial markets
Disclaimer
Please note that related topic tags are currently available for selected content only.
Are you happy with this page?
Yes
No
What made you unhappy?
Page not working
Information not useful
Design not attractive
Something else
Thank you for letting us know!
Useful links
About us
Work with us
Explainers
Press photos
Contacts
Where to find us
Using our site
Disclaimer & Copyright
Technical updates
Responsible disclosure
Corporate Policies
Data Protection
Privacy statement for the website
Cookies policy
Accessibility statement
Language policy
Site directory
Copyright 2026,
European Central Bank
Follow us
Our website uses cookies
We use functional cookies to store user preferences; analytics cookies to improve website performance; third-party cookies set by third-party services integrated into the website. You have the choice to accept or reject them. For more information or to review your preference on the cookies and server logs we use, we invite you to:
Read our privacy statement
Learn more about how we use cookies
I understand and I accept the use of
cookies
I do not accept the use of
cookies
Thank you!
Thank you!
We have updated our privacy policy
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided
by cookies.
See what has changed in our privacy policy
I understand and I accept the use of
cookies
I do not accept the use of
cookies
Your cookie preference has expired
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided
by cookies.
Learn more about how we use cookies
I understand and I accept the use of
cookies
I do not accept the use of
cookies
This feature requires cookies.
Modify