TARGET: ICE Insights
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Fixed Income & Data Services
URL: https://www.ice.com/fixed-income-data-services

Fixed Income & Data Services
Your browser is unsupported
Please visit
this URL
to
review a list of supported browsers.
ICE Logo
ICE
NYSE
LOGIN
WEBICE
ICE Logo
Solutions
Resources
Insights
About Us
Fixed income in 2026
Five things we’re watching
Read now
Fixed Income & Data Services
Proprietary data is at our core​
Manage risk, uncover opportunities, and make informed decisions in real-time with ICE’s end-to-end solutions. Reimagine your workflow from price transparency and discovery to efficient execution, performance analytics and risk management.
Fixed Income & Data Services
Data & Analytics
Access & Delivery
Fixed Income
Index Solutions
Climate Risk
Regulation Compliance
Strategic Alliances
Bond markets form the foundation of global finance, providing essential funding for governments and corporates.
Data is the foundation, AI the accelerator​
As AI becomes more embedded in trading strategies, we expect our proprietary datasets to provide a competitive edge to users of models that require precision and large quantities of historical data.
Across fixed income segments, AI is helping to improve the quality and coverage of our data and analytics. In reference data, we’re boosting the timeliness of issuance and using AI to process and validate documents from hundreds of sources. The quality of our evaluations is being improved by combining real-time data and correlations across instruments, while AI is also helping us identify patterns in pre and post trade analytics.
In new product development, we’re utilizing AI with our
sentiment indictor datasets including Reddit, Dow Jones and soon Polymarket
. Our high-quality pricing and reference data creates the foundation for ICE to be one of the largest providers of fixed income indices globally. We see the application of AI - and corresponding demand for quality data - as increasing both the value and the need for that data.​
Our AI strategy leverages three core strengths:
Deep operational and complex workflow expertise​
Highly differentiated proprietary data — which we believe will only grow in value​
Powerful network effects of our platform​
Increasing market transparency
To remain ahead, financial market participants need comprehensive data, technology and expertise to excel in constantly changing conditions. ICE provides the data and insights across asset classes. Our risk management tools and access to experts can help uncover opportunities and navigate markets with confidence.
Data & Analytics
Our data and analytics solutions cover a broad range of asset classes, including derivatives pricing and analytics, to help you uncover investing and trading opportunities, manage risk and maintain compliance.
Fixed income execution
Manage risk, uncover opportunities, and make informed decisions in real-time with ICE’s end-to-end fixed income solutions.
Index Solutions
Find out why active and passive managers benchmark trillions of dollars in assets under management against ICE Indices.
Mortgage Data Analytics
An integrated ecosystem of technology, data, and analytics that supports the entire US real estate and housing finance lifecycle – the largest asset class in the world’s biggest economy.
Climate Risk Data
ICE offers a range of cross-asset climate risk data and tools that provide a comprehensive view of climate-related challenges and exposures across the market.
Regulation Compliance
The evolving regulatory environment challenges firms to expand data requirements and enhance risk management processes. We offer a range of regulatory-related services designed to help with your compliance obligations and improve operational efficiency.
Fixed Income Monthly Report — November 2025
The next generation of market signals and insight
Chris Edmonds, President, Fixed Income & Data Services, ICE
Read now
Accelerate your workflow
Efficient access to market data and content is critical for firms to drive trading strategies, inform decision making, optimize performance and seize opportunity. ICE technology and innovation is helping clients transform their data management processes, accelerate time to market and access vast, differentiated datasets to power analytics and critical workflows across the enterprise.
Desktop & Web Platforms
Implement core business and trading strategies more efficiently.
APIs
Enrich front office tools and automate your processes with our suite of API solutions.
Connectivity
Access key liquidity venues around the globe, including proprietary and third-party content.
Consolidated Data Feed
Power enterprise-wide applications with streaming, low-latency data feeds delivered over ICE Global Network.
ICE Consolidated History
Tap into a comprehensive cloud-based archive of historical tick data.
Widgets
Integrate financial data into your platform.
Delivering opportunity through data access
Watch our latest video narrated by ICE's President of Fixed Income & Data Services,
Chris Edmonds
, to learn why access to data can provide an edge in fast-moving markets. Whether fixed income, derivatives, or mortgages, ICE delivers quality data and analytics across asset classes. ICE also offers specialization in pricing complex asset classes. It’s all about helping clients manage risk and spot opportunity.
Watch the latest video
Ultra-secure, highly resilient network
ICE Global Network offers high quality content, delivery and access to execution services through an ultra-secure, highly resilient network. An important backbone for financial and commodity market information flow, it connects the global market community to the broadest ranges of data sources - including proprietary and third-party content - and trading venues in a safe, efficient manner.
Connectivity
Access key liquidity venues around the globe, including proprietary and third-party content.
Related insights
Three financial technologies redefining modern wealth management
Discover how corporate actions data, continuous evaluated pricing and inexpensive market data terminals are making wealth advisors more efficient and cost-effective.
Read now
Liquidity metrics for bond indices offer rich opportunity
ICE’s Liquidity Metrics could provide a deeper understanding of variation across fixed income segments and be used to inform index design.
Read now
Fixed income in 2026
Five things we’re watching. Chris Edmonds – President, Fixed Income & Data Services at ICE assesses the key trends in 2026.
Read now
Important Disclosures
Trading and execution services are offered through ICE Bonds Securities Corporation or ICE Bonds, member FINRA, MSRB and SIPC. The information found herein, has been prepared solely for informational purposes and should not be considered investment advice, is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any financial product(s), is intended for institutional customers only and is not intended for retail customer use. ICE Bonds offers extended hours trading on ICE BondPoint. Before engaging in extended hours trading, you should consider the points contained in ICE Bonds’ Extended Hours Trading Risk Disclosure, which can be found
here
.
Fixed income evaluations, continuous evaluated pricing, end-of-day evaluations, evaluated curves, model-based curves, market sentiment scores, Size-Adjusted Pricing, and Fair Value Information Services related to securities are provided in the US through ICE Data Pricing & Reference Data, LLC and internationally through ICE Data Services entities in Europe and Asia Pacific. ICE Data Pricing & Reference Data, LLC is a registered investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional information about ICE Data Pricing & Reference Data, LLC is available on the SEC's website at
adviserinfo.sec.gov
. A copy of ICE Data Pricing & Reference Data, LLC ’s Form ADV is available
here
or upon request.
Have a question?
Contact us
ICE Logo
Solutions
Exchanges & Clearing
Fixed Income & Data Services
Mortgage Technology
Benchmark Administration
Tools and Sources
Markets
Clearing
Product guide
Market reports
Expiry calendars
Margins
Fees
Support
Trade & clearing helpdesk
ICE data services support
ICE Education
ICE developer portal
Subscriptions
About
Media center
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
ICE events
Sustainability
Insights
Climate risk
Energy markets
Fixed Income & Data
Mortgage
Privacy & Security Center
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
©
2026
Intercontinental Exchange, Inc.