TARGET: ICE Insights
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Inside the ICE House | ICE NYSE Insights
URL: https://www.ice.com/insights/conversations/inside-the-ice-house

Inside the ICE House | ICE NYSE Insights
Your browser is unsupported
Please visit
this URL
to
review a list of supported browsers.
ICE Logo
ICE
NYSE
LOGIN
WEBICE
ICE Logo
Solutions
Resources
Insights
About Us
ICE Insights
/
Conversations
/
Inside the ICE House
Inside the ICE House
Conversations with leaders, entrepreneurs, and visionaries. Inside the ICE House, a podcast produced by Intercontinental Exchange, takes listeners behind the historic façade of the New York Stock Exchange and inside the global financial marketplace.
The episodes, recorded in the Library of the NYSE, feature conversations with leaders, entrepreneurs and visionaries who walk through our doors with a dream of building businesses and changing the world.
Their stories have made the NYSE, now part of ICE’s ecosystem of markets, clearing houses, data providers, and listings services, an indispensable institution for over 225 years. Subscribe below and
follow us on 𝕏
.
Seasons
Inside the ICE House
Market Storylines
ETF Central
Recent episodes
History Series
The New York Railroads that Brought Investment and Engineering Together
Listen now
Episode 520
ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt on Fighting Antisemitism and Impact of the TOV ETF
Listen now
Market Storylines
Headline-Driven Volatility, Middle East Tensions + Markets Whipsaw
Listen now
ETF Central
AssetLink Founder & CEO Devon Drew
Listen now
Featured episodes
NYSE President Lynn Martin is Bullish on Using Data to Move Markets
Episode 286
Lynn Martin, President of the New York Stock Exchange and Chair of ICE’s Fixed Income & Data Services business, joined us Inside the ICE House to reflect on International Women’s Day 2022 and preview her plan to expand the NYSE’s role as the nexus for economic growth and innovation. Part of this comes from expanding opportunities for those who have felt sidelined by the markets. Lynn outlines how she’s bullish on data, notably ESG data, to the corner of Wall and Broad and how it can be harnessed to make markets function more effectively with greater transparency.
Listen now
Ken Griffin in Boca: The Evangelist for Making the Migration to Wall Street South
Episode 406
On the periphery of FIA Boca, the annual gathering of the Futures Industry Association, Citadel Founder and CEO Ken Griffin felt right at home. In fact, he was. Growing up in Florida, Ken’s journey took him to Harvard, then Chicago, before returning to his roots by bringing the Citadel team, and their investing talents, to Brickell Bay Drive in Miami. Like Henry Flagler and Walt Disney before him, Ken Griffin is leading a new migration to the Sunshine State.
Listen now
ARK Invest CEO Cathie Wood Offers a Master Class in Disruptive Innovation
Episode 242
Cathie Wood, CEO and CIO of ARK Invest, unloads wisdom on bitcoin, inflation, and how to succeed in finance. At ARK Invest, Cathie puts her training in economics to the test, allocating capital to disruptive innovations that are reshaping our world. Cathie unpacks the five technologies that drive her investment thesis and pulls back the onion on how Ark works with a small group of analysts to find the “next big thing” in public markets, all while sharing their research with the rest of the world.
Listen now
Former Secretary of State John Kerry: A Diplomatic Courtship of Wall Street to Combat Climate Change
Episode 198
John Kerry, the 68th U.S. Secretary of State -- and now Chairman of the Climate Finance Partners Advisory Board, has partnered with Krane Funds Advisors to launch the KFA Global Carbon ETF (NYSE Arca: KRBN). Secretary Kerry has faced many crises during his career, but his call to address global warming remains at the top of his agenda. Following his recent visit to the NYSE, Secretary Kerry laid out the case to price carbon and put market forces to work to address the looming challenge.
Listen now
New NYSE Chair Sharon Bowen on Service, Success, and Solving Problems
Episode 283
In 2021, Sharon Bowen became the first woman and first Black person to serve as Chair of the New York Stock Exchange. Sharon’s new role is the latest step in a series of successes from Wall Street, where she was a longtime lawyer working on some of the world’s biggest deals, to Washington, where she became a leading regulator at the SIPC and CFTC. She joins us to share stories of the world that shaped her career and how she’ll be using her new platform at the corner of Wall and Broad Streets.
Listen now
Subscribe to Inside the ICE House
Information contained in this podcast was obtained in part from publicly available sources, and not independently verified. Neither ICE nor its affiliates make any representations or warranties, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of the information and do not sponsor, approve, or endorse any of the content herein, all of which is presented solely for informational and educational purposes. Nothing herein constitutes an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, or a recommendation of any security or trading practice.
ICE Logo
Solutions
Exchanges & Clearing
Fixed Income & Data Services
Mortgage Technology
Benchmark Administration
Tools and Sources
Markets
Clearing
Product guide
Market reports
Expiry calendars
Margins
Fees
Support
Trade & clearing helpdesk
ICE data services support
ICE Education
ICE developer portal
Subscriptions
About
Media center
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
ICE events
Sustainability
Insights
Climate risk
Energy markets
Fixed Income & Data
Mortgage
Privacy & Security Center
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
©
2026
Intercontinental Exchange, Inc.