TARGET: New York Fed Staff Reports
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Staff Reports - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff_reports

Staff Reports - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Museum & Visits
Regional Economy
Data & Statistics
Careers
Blog
Press Center
Menu
About the New York Fed
About the New York Fed
What We Do
Who We Are
Bank Leadership
Communities We Serve
Governance
Board of Directors
Disclosures
Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Annual Financial Statements
Org Chart
More About Us
News & Events
Advisory Groups
Vendor Information
Holiday Schedule
At the New  York Fed, our mission is to make the U.S. economy stronger and the financial system more stable for all segments of society. We do this by executing monetary policy, providing financial services, supervising banks and conducting research and providing expertise on issues that impact the nation and communities we serve.
The Teller Window is a publication featuring expert knowledge and insight from the New York Fed, including thoughts and perspectives from senior leaders.
Do you have a request for information and records? Learn how to submit it.
Learn about the history of the New York Fed and central banking in the United States through articles, speeches, photos and video.
Markets & Policy Implementation
Markets & Policy Implementation
DATA
Reference Rates
Effective Federal Funds Rate
Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SOFR Averages & Index
Broad General Collateral Rate
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate
Desk Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repos
Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Central Bank Liquidity Swaps
System Open Market Account Holdings
Primary Dealer Statistics
Historical Transaction Data
DOMESTIC MARKET OPERATIONS
Monetary Policy Implementation
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repos & Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Discount Window
Treasury Debt Auctions & Buybacks
as Fiscal Agent
INTERNATIONAL MARKET OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Reserves Management
Central Bank Swap Arrangements
ACROSS MARKETS
Statements & Operating Policies
Market Intelligence
Survey of Market Expectations
Annual Reports
Counterparties
Primary Dealers
Standing Repo Counterparties
Reverse Repo Counterparties
Foreign Exchange Counterparties
Foreign Reserves Management Counterparties
Operational Readiness
Central Bank & International Account Services
Programs Archive
Economic Research
Economic Research
U.S. Economy
Consumer Expectations & Behavior
Survey of Consumer Expectations
Household Debt & Credit Report
Home Price Changes
Growth & Inflation
Economic Heterogeneity Indicators (EHIs)
Multivariate Core Trend Inflation
New York Fed DSGE Model
New York Fed Staff Nowcast
R-star: Natural Rate of Interest
Labor Market
Labor Market for Recent College Graduates
Labor Market Tightness Index
Financial Stability
Corporate Bond Market Distress Index
Losses from Natural Disasters
Outlook-at-Risk
Treasury Term Premia
Yield Curve as a Leading Indicator
Banking
Banking Research Data Sets
Quarterly Trends for Consolidated U.S. Banking Organizations
Reserve Demand Elasticity
REGIONAL ECONOMY
Empire State Manufacturing Survey
Business Leaders Survey
Regional Business Surveys: Special Topics
Regional Employment Trends
Early Benchmarked Employment Data
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index
RESEARCHERS
Staff Economists
Visiting Scholars
Resident Scholars
PUBLICATIONS
Liberty Street Economics
Staff Reports
Economic Policy Review
Outside Journals
RESEARCH CENTERS
Applied Macroeconomics
& Econometrics Center (AMEC)
Center for Microeconomic Data (CMD)
CALENDAR
Economic Indicators Calendar
Financial Institution Supervision
Financial Institution Supervision
Supervision & Regulation
Circulars
Regulations
Reporting Forms & Instructions
Reporting Forms
Correspondence
Bank Applications
Consumer Protection
Community Reinvestment Act
Frauds and Scams
As part of our core mission, we supervise and regulate financial institutions in the Second District. Our primary objective is to maintain a safe and competitive U.S. and global banking system.
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Need to file a report with the New York Fed? Here are all of the forms, instructions and other information related to regulatory and statistical reporting in one spot.
The New York Fed works to protect consumers as well as provides information and resources on how to avoid and report specific scams.
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Operations
Services For Financial Institutions
Payment Services
Payment System Oversight
International Services, Seminars & Training
Financial Market Infrastructure & Reform
Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform
Managing Foreign Exchange
Money Market Funds
Over-The-Counter Derivatives
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works to promote sound and well-functioning financial systems and markets through its provision of industry and payment services, advancement of infrastructure reform in key markets and training and educational support
to international institutions.
The New York Innovation Center bridges the worlds of finance, technology, and innovation and generates insights into high-value central bank-related opportunities.
The growing role of nonbank financial institutions, or NBFIs, in U.S. financial markets is a transformational trend with implications for monetary policy and financial stability.
The New York Fed offers the Central Banking Seminar and several specialized courses for central bankers and financial supervisors.
Community Development
& Education
Community Development & Education
Community Development
Staff
Fed System Initiatives
Fed Communities
Fed Listens
Fed Small Business
Workforce Development
Other Community Development Work
Calendar
Economic Education
Programs
High School Fed Challenge
College Fed Challenge
Teacher Professional Development
Classroom Visits
Museum & Learning Center Visits
Resources
Educational Comic Books
Economist Spotlight Series
Lesson Plans and Resources
Economic Education Calendar
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Staff Reports
Technical working papers intended for publication in leading finance and economics journals. The
Research Papers
series predated
Staff Reports
and was discontinued in 1998. Both series are available only online.
Browse
Staff Reports
:
Which year?
2017
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
1995
or
Browse
Research Papers
:
Which year?
1998
1997
1996
1995
Browse recently revised staff reports»
2017 Staff Reports
Priors for the Long Run
Domenico Giannone, Michele Lenza, and Giorgio E. Primiceri
November  Number 832
Escaping Unemployment Traps
Sushant Acharya, Julien Bengui, Keshav Dogra, and Shu Lin Wee
November  Number 831
Macroeconomic Nowcasting and Forecasting with Big Data
Brandyn Bok, Daniele Caratelli, Domenico Giannone, Argia Sbordone, and Andrea Tambalotti
November  Number 830
The Mortgage Rate Conundrum
Alejandro Justiniano, Giorgio E. Primiceri, and Andrea Tambalotti
November  Number 829
China’s Evolving Managed Float: An Exploration of the Roles of the Fix and Broad Dollar Movements in Explaining Daily Exchange Rate Changes
John Clark
November  Number 828
An Index of Treasury Market Liquidity: 1991-2017
Tobias Adrian, Michael Fleming, and Erik Vogt
November  Number 827
Empirical Network Contagion for U.S. Financial Institutions
Fernando Duarte and Collin Jones
November  Number 826
Gender Representation in Economics across Topics and Time: Evidence from the NBER Summer Institute
Anusha Chari and Paul Goldsmith-Pinkham
October  Number 825
Estimating Dynamic Panel Models: Backing out the Nickell Bias
Jerry A. Hausman and Maxim L. Pinkovskiy
October  Number 824
Does Going Easy on Distressed Banks Help Economic Growth?
Sean Hundtofte
October  Number 823
The Treasury Market Practices Group: Creation and Early Initiatives
Kenneth D. Garbade and Frank M. Keane
August  Number 822
Import Competition and Household Debt
Jean-Noël Barrot, Erik Loualiche, Matthew Plosser, and Julien Sauvagnat
August  Number 821
Echoes of Rising Tuition in Students’ Borrowing, Educational Attainment, and Homeownership in Post-Recession America
Zachary Bleemer, Meta Brown, Donghoon Lee, Katherine Strair, and Wilbert van der Klaauw
July  Number 820
The Shifting Drivers of Global Liquidity
Stefan Avdjiev, Leonardo Gambacorta, Linda S. Goldberg, and Stefano Schiaffi
June  Number 819
Supply- and Demand-Side Factors in Global Banking
Mary Amiti, Patrick McGuire, and David E. Weinstein
June  Number 818
How Did China’s WTO Entry Benefit U.S. Consumers?
Mary Amiti, Mi Dai, Robert C. Feenstra, and John Romalis
June  Number 817
Investors’ Appetite for Money-Like Assets: The Money Market Fund Industry after the 2014 Regulatory Reform
Marco Cipriani, Gabriele La Spada, and Philip Mulder
June  Number 816
Macroprudential Policy and the Revolving Door of Risk: Lessons from Leveraged Lending Guidance
Sooji Kim, Matthew C. Plosser, and João A. C. Santos
May  Number 815
Access to Credit and Financial Health: Evaluating the Impact of Debt Collection
Julia Fonseca, Katherine Strair, and Basit Zafar
May  Number 814
Transformation of Corporate Scope in U.S. Banks: Patterns and Performance Implications
Nicola Cetorelli, Michael G. Jacobides, and Samuel Stern
May  Number 813
Safety, Liquidity, and the Natural Rate of Interest
Marco Del Negro, Domenico Giannone, Marc P. Giannoni, and Andrea Tambalotti
May  Number 812
How Does For-Profit College Attendance Affect Student Loans, Defaults, and Earnings?
Luis Armona, Rajashri Chakrabarti, and Michael Lovenheim
April  Number 811
Interest Rate Conundrums in the Twenty-First Century
Samuel G. Hanson, David O. Lucca, and Jonathan H. Wright
March  Number 810
The Pre-Crisis Monetary Policy Implementation Framework
Alexander Kroeger, John McGowan, and Asani Sarkar
March  Number 809
The Behavior of Uncertainty and Disagreement, and their Roles in Economic Prediction: A Panel Analysis
Robert Rich and Joseph Tracy
February  Number 808
Disaster (Over-)Insurance: The Long-Term Financial and Socioeconomic Consequences of
Hurricane Katrina
Zachary Bleemer and Wilbert van der Klaauw
February  Number 807
Beyond Thirty: Treasury Issuance of Long-Term Bonds from 1953 to 1965
Kenneth D. Garbade
January  Number 806
The Time-Varying Price of Financial Intermediation in the Mortgage Market
Andreas Fuster, Stephanie H. Lo, and Paul Willen
January  Number 805
Revised August 2017
Review Policy
The New York Fed reserves the right to require pre-publication changes to papers appearing in its working paper series
Staff Reports
. Such changes are strictly limited to ensuring that Staff Reports do not offer concrete predictions about impending monetary policy or regulatory actions, or otherwise violate applicable rules on the use of confidential information or standards of professional conduct. In addition, Staff Reports must not violate contractual obligations to data vendors.
While management in the Research Group may suggest substantive changes to Staff Reports on the basis of criteria other than those specified in the above paragraph, whether and how to respond to such suggestions are at authors’ sole discretion. Authors of Staff Reports are solely responsible for ensuring that all claims made in their work are well supported by evidence and that limitations of the analysis are clearly described.
Tools
Advanced search for research publications
receive email alerts for research
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map