TARGET: New York Fed Staff Reports
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/rstar

Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Museum & Visits
Regional Economy
Data & Statistics
Careers
Blog
Press Center
Menu
About the New York Fed
About the New York Fed
What We Do
Who We Are
Bank Leadership
Communities We Serve
Governance
Board of Directors
Disclosures
Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Annual Financial Statements
Org Chart
More About Us
News & Events
Advisory Groups
Vendor Information
Holiday Schedule
At the New  York Fed, our mission is to make the U.S. economy stronger and the financial system more stable for all segments of society. We do this by executing monetary policy, providing financial services, supervising banks and conducting research and providing expertise on issues that impact the nation and communities we serve.
The Teller Window is a publication featuring expert knowledge and insight from the New York Fed, including thoughts and perspectives from senior leaders.
Do you have a request for information and records? Learn how to submit it.
Learn about the history of the New York Fed and central banking in the United States through articles, speeches, photos and video.
Markets & Policy Implementation
Markets & Policy Implementation
DATA
Reference Rates
Effective Federal Funds Rate
Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SOFR Averages & Index
Broad General Collateral Rate
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate
Desk Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repos
Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Central Bank Liquidity Swaps
System Open Market Account Holdings
Primary Dealer Statistics
Historical Transaction Data
DOMESTIC MARKET OPERATIONS
Monetary Policy Implementation
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repos & Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Discount Window
Treasury Debt Auctions & Buybacks
as Fiscal Agent
INTERNATIONAL MARKET OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Reserves Management
Central Bank Swap Arrangements
ACROSS MARKETS
Statements & Operating Policies
Market Intelligence
Survey of Market Expectations
Annual Reports
Counterparties
Primary Dealers
Standing Repo Counterparties
Reverse Repo Counterparties
Foreign Exchange Counterparties
Foreign Reserves Management Counterparties
Operational Readiness
Central Bank & International Account Services
Programs Archive
Economic Research
Economic Research
U.S. Economy
Consumer Expectations & Behavior
Survey of Consumer Expectations
Household Debt & Credit Report
Home Price Changes
Growth & Inflation
Economic Heterogeneity Indicators (EHIs)
Multivariate Core Trend Inflation
New York Fed DSGE Model
New York Fed Staff Nowcast
R-star: Natural Rate of Interest
Labor Market
Labor Market for Recent College Graduates
Labor Market Tightness Index
Financial Stability
Corporate Bond Market Distress Index
Losses from Natural Disasters
Outlook-at-Risk
Treasury Term Premia
Yield Curve as a Leading Indicator
Banking
Banking Research Data Sets
Quarterly Trends for Consolidated U.S. Banking Organizations
Reserve Demand Elasticity
REGIONAL ECONOMY
Empire State Manufacturing Survey
Business Leaders Survey
Regional Business Surveys: Special Topics
Regional Employment Trends
Early Benchmarked Employment Data
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index
RESEARCHERS
Staff Economists
Visiting Scholars
Resident Scholars
PUBLICATIONS
Liberty Street Economics
Staff Reports
Economic Policy Review
Outside Journals
RESEARCH CENTERS
Applied Macroeconomics
& Econometrics Center (AMEC)
Center for Microeconomic Data (CMD)
CALENDAR
Economic Indicators Calendar
Financial Institution Supervision
Financial Institution Supervision
Supervision & Regulation
Circulars
Regulations
Reporting Forms & Instructions
Reporting Forms
Correspondence
Bank Applications
Consumer Protection
Community Reinvestment Act
Frauds and Scams
As part of our core mission, we supervise and regulate financial institutions in the Second District. Our primary objective is to maintain a safe and competitive U.S. and global banking system.
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Need to file a report with the New York Fed? Here are all of the forms, instructions and other information related to regulatory and statistical reporting in one spot.
The New York Fed works to protect consumers as well as provides information and resources on how to avoid and report specific scams.
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Operations
Services For Financial Institutions
Payment Services
Payment System Oversight
International Services, Seminars & Training
Financial Market Infrastructure & Reform
Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform
Managing Foreign Exchange
Money Market Funds
Over-The-Counter Derivatives
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works to promote sound and well-functioning financial systems and markets through its provision of industry and payment services, advancement of infrastructure reform in key markets and training and educational support
to international institutions.
The New York Innovation Center bridges the worlds of finance, technology, and innovation and generates insights into high-value central bank-related opportunities.
The growing role of nonbank financial institutions, or NBFIs, in U.S. financial markets is a transformational trend with implications for monetary policy and financial stability.
The New York Fed offers the Central Banking Seminar and several specialized courses for central bankers and financial supervisors.
Community Development
& Education
Community Development & Education
Community Development
Staff
Fed System Initiatives
Fed Communities
Fed Listens
Fed Small Business
Workforce Development
Other Community Development Work
Calendar
Economic Education
Programs
High School Fed Challenge
College Fed Challenge
Teacher Professional Development
Classroom Visits
Museum & Learning Center Visits
Resources
Educational Comic Books
Economist Spotlight Series
Lesson Plans and Resources
Economic Education Calendar
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest
T
he Laubach-Williams and Holston-Laubach-Williams models provide estimates of the
natural rate of interest, or r-star, and related variables. Their approach defines r-star as the real short-term
interest rate expected to prevail when an economy is at full strength and inflation is stable.
LW Estimates for the United States
Source: Laubach and Williams (2003).
Note: We plot estimates of the natural rate of interest (r-star) along with those for the trend growth rate of the U.S. economy, a source of change driving r-star.
The
Laubach-Williams (2003) model
uses data on real GDP, inflation, and the federal funds rate to extract trends in U.S. economic growth and other factors influencing the natural rate of interest. Holston, Laubach, and Williams (2023) adapts the model following the COVID‑19 pandemic.
Download Data Series and Code for LW Estimation
Real-time estimates
(based on vintage data)
Current model estimates
(previously labeled "updated estimates"; data include parameter estimates)
Replication code for COVID-adjusted LW Model
(current; as of March 20, 2026)
Archived Materials
Replication code for LW (2003) model
(as of November 1, 2019)
Notes on the August 31, 2018, estimates
Adapting the Laubach and Williams and Holston, Laubach, and Williams Models to the COVID‑19 Pandemic
(May 27, 2020)
References
Cho and Williams. 2025.
"Comparing Apples to Apples: 'Synthetic Real-Time' Estimates of R-Star,"
Liberty Street Economics
, March 3.
Holston, Laubach, and Williams. 2023.
“Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest after COVID‑19,”
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports
, no. 1063, June.
Laubach and Williams. 2003. “Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest,”
Review of Economics and Statistics
85, no.4 (November): 1063-70.
Working paper version:
“Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest”
Release Schedule
Released at or shortly after 2:00 p.m.
2026
Mar 20
May 29
Aug 27
Nov 27
Note:
The New York Fed does not offer individualized services to readers, such as custom charts or analysis.
The replication code zip files shared above contain programs to run the LW and HLW estimation using input data series
provided in the "current model estimates" spreadsheet. Consult the code guides in the zip packages as well as the
scholarly references on this web page for information on the data series used to run the models and their sources.
The Laubach-Williams and Holston-Laubach-Williams estimates were previously published on the Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco’s website. No aspects of the methodology changed when publication moved to the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York. See our “Notes” summarizing the effects of the 2018 National Income and Product Account (NIPA) revisions on our
estimates of r-star and related variables above.
How to cite this report:
Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest
, https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/rstar/overview.
Contact:
research.publications@ny.frb.org
Disclaimer:
The Laubach-Williams and Holston-Laubach-Williams estimates are not official forecasts of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, its president, the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Open Market Committee.
HLW Estimates for the United States
Source: Holston, Laubach, and Williams (2017).
Note: We plot estimates of the natural rate of interest (r-star) along with those for the trend growth rate of the U.S. economy, a source of change driving r-star.
The
Holston-Laubach-Williams (2017) model
extends this analysis to other advanced economies,
estimating r-star and related variables for the United States, Canada, and the Euro Area.
The
Holston-Laubach-Williams (2023) model
accounts for time-varying volatility and incorporates a
persistent supply shock during the COVID‑19 pandemic. Estimates for all three economies are shown in the HLW Estimates
tab linked above.
Download Data Series and Code for HLW Estimation
Real-time estimates
Current model estimates
Replication code for HLW (2023) model
(current; as of March 20, 2026)
Archived Materials
Replication code for HLW (2017) model
(as of November 1, 2019)
Adapting the Laubach and Williams and Holston, Laubach, and Williams Models to the COVID‑19 Pandemic
(May 27, 2020)
Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest: Past, Present, and Future
(May 19, 2023)
References
Cho and Williams. 2025.
"Are Financial Markets Good Predictors of R-Star?"
,
Liberty Street Economics
, August 25.
Cho and Williams. 2025.
"Comparing Apples to Apples: 'Synthetic Real-Time' Estimates of R-Star,"
Liberty Street Economics
, March 3.
Holston, Laubach, and Williams. 2023.
“Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest after COVID‑19,”
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports
, no. 1063, June.
Holston, Laubach, and Williams. 2017. “Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest: International Trends and Determinants,”
Journal of International Economics
108, Supplemental 1 (May): S39–S75.
Working paper version:
“Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest: International Trends and Determinants”
Release Schedule
Released at or shortly after 2:00 p.m.
2026
Mar 2 / Mar 20
Jun 1
Aug 28
Nov 27

Loading...
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map