TARGET: New York Fed Markets Data Hub
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Agency Debt Securities - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/domestic-market-operations/monetary-policy-implementation/agency-debt-securities
INDEX_URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/data-hub
ARTICLE_URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/domestic-market-operations/monetary-policy-implementation/agency-debt-securities
CANONICAL_URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/domestic-market-operations/monetary-policy-implementation/agency-debt-securities
PAGE_TITLE: Agency Debt Securities - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
H1: Agency Debt Securities
PUBLISHED_AT: 
PAGE_TYPE: listing_page
EXPECTED_LANGUAGE: en
DETECTED_LANGUAGE: en
CONTENT_WORD_COUNT: 477
EXTRACTION_WARNINGS: container_page,main_content_fallback

Agency Debt Securities - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Agency Debt Securities
The New York Fed is
authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)
to buy and sell agency debt securities for the
System Open Market Account (SOMA)
to the extent necessary to carry out directives adopted by the FOMC.
These securities include direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Banks. Purchases of agency debt securities increase the quantity of reserve balances in the banking system; sales or maturities of agency debt securities reduce those balances. These transactions, which are conducted by the New York Fed's Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk), are executed with
primary dealers
.
The Desk's purchases of agency debt securities occurred between 2009 and 2010 as part of the FOMC's broader effort to execute
large-scale asset purchase programs
to ease monetary policy. The aim of these purchases–combined with the purchases of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae
announced on November 25, 2008
–was to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative.
The Federal Reserve first purchased agency debt in 1971 and ended all purchases in the early 1990s. The Desk also purchased
agency discount notes
for a short period in 2008.
The New York Fed is authorized to reinvest the principal payments from agency debt and agency MBS holdings in the SOMA portfolio by investing in newly-issued MBS securities as directed by the FOMC. Details of the current SOMA portfolio management strategy for managing holdings of agency debt are outlined in the
most recent operating policy statement
.
The New York Fed also provides limited transaction services, including the purchases and sales of agency debt, to its official sector account holders. These include about 200 central banks, governments, and official institutions, many of whom do not have in-house capacity to conduct trading activity in the agency debt market.
Data
SOMA Holdings
Includes CUSIP-level data and the SOMA Historical Data Export Builder.
Markets Data APIs
Resources
FAQs: Agency MBS Operations
Announcements
Statement Regarding Reinvestment of Principal Payments from Treasury Securities and Agency Securities
Oct 29, 2025
Statement Regarding Reinvestment of Principal Payments from Treasury Securities, Agency Debt, and Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Mar 19, 2025
Related New York Fed Content
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements
Securities Lending
Annual Report on Open Market Operations
Related External Content
Federal Reserve Board: Monetary Policy
Open Market Operations
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map