TARGET: New York Fed Markets Data Hub
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Monetary Policy Implementation - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/domestic-market-operations/monetary-policy-implementation

Monetary Policy Implementation - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Museum & Visits
Regional Economy
Data & Statistics
Careers
Blog
Press Center
Menu
About the New York Fed
About the New York Fed
What We Do
Who We Are
Bank Leadership
Communities We Serve
Governance
Board of Directors
Disclosures
Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Annual Financial Statements
Org Chart
More About Us
News & Events
Advisory Groups
Vendor Information
Holiday Schedule
At the New  York Fed, our mission is to make the U.S. economy stronger and the financial system more stable for all segments of society. We do this by executing monetary policy, providing financial services, supervising banks and conducting research and providing expertise on issues that impact the nation and communities we serve.
The Teller Window is a publication featuring expert knowledge and insight from the New York Fed, including thoughts and perspectives from senior leaders.
Do you have a request for information and records? Learn how to submit it.
Learn about the history of the New York Fed and central banking in the United States through articles, speeches, photos and video.
Markets & Policy Implementation
Markets & Policy Implementation
DATA
Reference Rates
Effective Federal Funds Rate
Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SOFR Averages & Index
Broad General Collateral Rate
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate
Desk Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repos
Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Central Bank Liquidity Swaps
System Open Market Account Holdings
Primary Dealer Statistics
Historical Transaction Data
DOMESTIC MARKET OPERATIONS
Monetary Policy Implementation
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repos & Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Discount Window
Treasury Debt Auctions & Buybacks
as Fiscal Agent
INTERNATIONAL MARKET OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Reserves Management
Central Bank Swap Arrangements
ACROSS MARKETS
Statements & Operating Policies
Market Intelligence
Survey of Market Expectations
Annual Reports
Counterparties
Primary Dealers
Standing Repo Counterparties
Reverse Repo Counterparties
Foreign Exchange Counterparties
Foreign Reserves Management Counterparties
Operational Readiness
Central Bank & International Account Services
Programs Archive
Economic Research
Economic Research
U.S. Economy
Consumer Expectations & Behavior
Survey of Consumer Expectations
Household Debt & Credit Report
Home Price Changes
Growth & Inflation
Economic Heterogeneity Indicators (EHIs)
Multivariate Core Trend Inflation
New York Fed DSGE Model
New York Fed Staff Nowcast
R-star: Natural Rate of Interest
Labor Market
Labor Market for Recent College Graduates
Labor Market Tightness Index
Financial Stability
Corporate Bond Market Distress Index
Losses from Natural Disasters
Outlook-at-Risk
Treasury Term Premia
Yield Curve as a Leading Indicator
Banking
Banking Research Data Sets
Quarterly Trends for Consolidated U.S. Banking Organizations
Reserve Demand Elasticity
REGIONAL ECONOMY
Empire State Manufacturing Survey
Business Leaders Survey
Regional Business Surveys: Special Topics
Regional Employment Trends
Early Benchmarked Employment Data
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index
RESEARCHERS
Staff Economists
Visiting Scholars
Resident Scholars
PUBLICATIONS
Liberty Street Economics
Staff Reports
Economic Policy Review
Outside Journals
RESEARCH CENTERS
Applied Macroeconomics
& Econometrics Center (AMEC)
Center for Microeconomic Data (CMD)
CALENDAR
Economic Indicators Calendar
Financial Institution Supervision
Financial Institution Supervision
Supervision & Regulation
Circulars
Regulations
Reporting Forms & Instructions
Reporting Forms
Correspondence
Bank Applications
Consumer Protection
Community Reinvestment Act
Frauds and Scams
As part of our core mission, we supervise and regulate financial institutions in the Second District. Our primary objective is to maintain a safe and competitive U.S. and global banking system.
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Need to file a report with the New York Fed? Here are all of the forms, instructions and other information related to regulatory and statistical reporting in one spot.
The New York Fed works to protect consumers as well as provides information and resources on how to avoid and report specific scams.
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Operations
Services For Financial Institutions
Payment Services
Payment System Oversight
International Services, Seminars & Training
Financial Market Infrastructure & Reform
Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform
Managing Foreign Exchange
Money Market Funds
Over-The-Counter Derivatives
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works to promote sound and well-functioning financial systems and markets through its provision of industry and payment services, advancement of infrastructure reform in key markets and training and educational support
to international institutions.
The New York Innovation Center bridges the worlds of finance, technology, and innovation and generates insights into high-value central bank-related opportunities.
The growing role of nonbank financial institutions, or NBFIs, in U.S. financial markets is a transformational trend with implications for monetary policy and financial stability.
The New York Fed offers the Central Banking Seminar and several specialized courses for central bankers and financial supervisors.
Community Development
& Education
Community Development & Education
Community Development
Staff
Fed System Initiatives
Fed Communities
Fed Listens
Fed Small Business
Workforce Development
Other Community Development Work
Calendar
Economic Education
Programs
High School Fed Challenge
College Fed Challenge
Teacher Professional Development
Classroom Visits
Museum & Learning Center Visits
Resources
Educational Comic Books
Economist Spotlight Series
Lesson Plans and Resources
Economic Education Calendar
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Monetary Policy Implementation
The Federal Reserve sets U.S. monetary  policy and the New York Fed plays a central role in implementing it.
The
Fed’s economic goals
prescribed by Congress are to  promote maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest  rates. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC or Committee) is responsible for  monetary policy decisions to achieve these goals. The goals of maximum  employment and price stability, commonly known as the “dual mandate”, create  the conditions for moderate long-term interest rates. The FOMC determines the  appropriate position or “stance” of monetary policy, which reflects how  “accommodative” (encouraging economic growth) or “restrictive” (slowing  economic growth) it should be. Once the FOMC determines the appropriate stance  of policy, the Committee issues directives to the Open Market Trading Desk at  the New York Fed (Desk) to implement the policy.
Monetary policy works by influencing  short-term interest rates to affect the availability and cost of credit in the  economy and, ultimately, the economic decisions businesses and households make.  Monetary policy can also affect financial conditions more broadly as measured  by financial asset prices such as stock and bond prices, longer term interest  rates, and the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies.  This all affects economic activity and, ultimately, the Federal Reserve’s key  goals of maximum employment and price stability.
The framework for implementing  monetary policy includes two key parts:
The FOMC’s primary tool  for adjusting the monetary policy stance is through changes to the target range  for the federal funds rate, its key policy rate. To maintain the federal funds  rate well within the target range, the Federal Reserve sets the level of certain  administered rates.
The FOMC directs the  Desk to execute
open market operations
—purchases and sales of securities,  either outright or through repurchase agreements with
primary dealers
and the New York Fed’s other  trading counterparties. These transactions affect the size and composition of  the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet, which supports the FOMC’s monetary policy  stance.
In addition, the FOMC at times  issues
forward guidance
, or communications about the economic  outlook and likely future course of monetary policy to shape market  expectations about interest rates and financial conditions more broadly.  Forward guidance is typically communicated through FOMC statements and policymaker  remarks.
Targeting the Federal Funds Rate
The FOMC announces the target range  for the federal funds rate after each of
the Committee’s eight meetings per  year
. The federal funds rate  is the interest rate on transactions between banks and other eligible entities  to borrow and lend their account balances at the Federal Reserve on an  overnight, unsecured basis. These account balances, or reserve balances, are deposits  held by eligible institutions for multiple reasons, including meeting payment  obligations, managing liquidity risk, and complying with associated regulatory  ratios.
With an
ample supply of reserves
in the banking system, the  Federal Reserve controls the federal funds rate primarily through the setting  of administered rates, and active management of the supply of reserves is not  required.
On a daily basis, the New York Fed  publishes the
Effective Federal Funds Rate (EFFR)
, which is calculated as a  volume-weighted median of the previous business day’s overnight federal funds  transactions.
Supporting Control of the Federal  Funds Rate
Control  over the level of the federal funds rate and other short-term interest rates is  exercised primarily through the setting of the interest paid on reserve  balances (IORB). IORB is the rate paid to banks and other eligible entities on  their Federal Reserve account balances, or reserves, and is set by the Board of  Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board of Governors). By raising or  lowering the IORB rate, the Federal Reserve sets a floor under the rates at  which banks are willing to lend excess cash in their reserve accounts at the  Federal Reserve to private counterparties. Given the safety and convenience of  holding reserves, banks have little incentive to lend their reserves to  private-sector counterparties at rates lower than the IORB rate.
In addition, the FOMC sets the rate for two standing open market operations, conducted on a daily basis by the Desk, that support interest rate control and are essential for monetary policy implementation and smooth market functioning:
Overnight  Reverse Repo (ON RRP)
operations limit downward pressure and help to provide a floor under overnight money market rates. Overnight reverse repo operations offer a broad range of money market participants who are ineligible to earn IORB an alternative risk-free investment option that enhances their bargaining power on short-term private investment transactions.  Eligible
counterparties
for overnight reverse repo  operations include money market funds, government-sponsored enterprises, primary dealers, and depository institutions.
Standing       Repo (SRP)
operations limit upward pressure and help to provide a ceiling on overnight money market rates. Standing repo operations offer an alternative, risk-free  financing option that enhances bargaining power  on short-term financing transactions. Standing repo operations are expected to be actively used when economically sensible. Eligible
counterparties
for standing repo operations include primary dealers and depository institutions.
Modest adjustments to these rates  within the target range may occur to help support rate control, but they do not  represent a change in policy stance.
Additional Liquidity Tools
The Federal Reserve operates  additional tools that support the effective implementation of monetary policy  by limiting the potential for pressures in overnight funding markets to push  the EFFR above the FOMC’s target range:
The
discount window
, operated at all 12 Reserve Banks,  provides a source of liquidity for banks and promotes financial stability. By  providing access to temporary funding, the discount window assists depository institutions in  managing their liquidity risks and in turn helps support the flow of credit to  households and businesses. Primary Credit is one of the key lending programs  within the discount window. It is available to banks in generally sound  financial condition and with eligible collateral pledged to a Reserve Bank.  There are no restrictions on banks’ use of borrowed funds.
The
Foreign and International Monetary  Authorities (FIMA) Repo Facility
, operated by the Desk, helps to address pressures in global dollar funding  markets that could otherwise affect financial market conditions in the United  States. Under this backstop facility, approved FIMA account holders can enter  overnight repo transactions with the Federal Reserve against Treasury  securities held in their custody accounts at the New York Fed.
Standing
U.S. dollar and foreign currency  liquidity swaps lines
,
operated by the Desk
, with five other major central banks  help to ease strains in global funding markets and mitigate the effects of such  strains on the supply of credit to U.S. households and businesses.  The  U.S. dollar swap lines, which involve a temporary exchange of currencies  between two central banks, provide foreign central banks with the capacity to  deliver U.S. dollar funding to institutions in their jurisdictions during times  of market stress.
Asset Purchases
Changes in the size or composition of  the balance sheet are an important part of the monetary policy implementation  framework. At the direction of the FOMC and on behalf of the
System Open Market Account (SOMA)
—the Federal Reserve’s portfolio of securities—the Desk  purchases securities in the open market.
The FOMC may direct the Desk to conduct asset purchases for different reasons:
Reserves  Management:
Asset purchases in  an ample reserves regime are used to maintain a level of reserves in the  banking system to support interest rate control. The Federal Reserve closely  monitors the level of reserves and other liabilities on its balance sheet. The Desk  may offset decreases in reserves, such as those caused by the issuance of  currency, through reserve management purchases.
Policy  Accommodation:
Asset purchases  can be used to directly influence financial conditions, including further  easing financial conditions when the policy rate is near zero. Such asset  purchases put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates by reducing the  stock of privately held debt.
Market  Functioning:
Asset purchases  can be used to address severe disruptions to market functioning by easing  balance sheet constraints of private market participants to restore two-way  trading and more normal market functioning.
Balance Sheet Reduction
The FOMC may also direct the Desk to reduce the size of the balance sheet when policy accommodation through asset purchases is no longer needed. This includes limiting reinvestment of proceeds from maturing securities or selling securities. For example, between
June 2022 and November 2025, the FOMC directed the Desk
to begin allowing  Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities holdings to mature without  reinvestment up to specified amounts, which guided the pace of balance sheet reduction.
Additional Operations
To support effective open market  operations, the Desk
lends eligible Treasury and agency  debt securities
owned by the  Federal Reserve on an overnight basis. Also,
to support its operational readiness
to implement future directives  from the FOMC, the Desk conducts very small purchases or sales of securities  from time to time across a range of operation types. These operations do not  represent a change in the stance of monetary policy.
Further Reading
Federal Reserve Repo and Reverse Repo Market Operations: Before the Global Financial Crisis to 2015
The Teller Window, July 16, 2025
Federal Reserve Repo and Reverse Repo Market Operations: 2015 to Now
The Teller Window, July 17, 2025
Summer Reading on Monetary Policy Implementation
The Teller Window, Aug. 5, 2024
The Federal Reserve and its Monetary Policy Implementation Framework
The Teller Window, Aug. 5, 2024
The Role of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet in Monetary Policy Implementation
The Teller Window, Aug. 6, 2024
The Federal Reserve’s Standing Liquidity Facilities
The Teller Window, Aug. 7, 2024
Monetary Policy Implementation in Practice Today
The Teller Window, Aug. 8, 2024
The "How and When" of the Fed's Balance Sheet Runoff
The Teller Window, Sept. 8, 2022
How the Federal Reserve’s Monetary Policy Implementation Framework Has Evolved
Liberty Street Economics, Jan. 10, 2022
How the Fed’s Overnight Reverse Repo Facility Works
Liberty Street Economics, Jan. 11, 2022
How the Fed Adjusts the Fed Funds Rate within Its Target Range
Liberty Street Economics, Jan. 12, 2022
The Fed’s Latest Tool: A Standing Repo Facility
Liberty Street Economics, Jan. 13, 2022
Implementing Monetary Policy in an "Ample-Reserves" Regime: The Basics (Note 1 of 3)
FEDS Notes, July 1, 2020
Implementing Monetary Policy in an “Ample-Reserves” Regime: Maintaining an Ample Quantity of Reserves (Note 2 of 3)
FEDS Notes, Aug. 28, 2020
Implementing Monetary Policy in an “Ample-Reserves” Regime: When in Crisis (Note 3 of 3)
FEDS Notes, Oct. 2, 2020
Announcements
Statement Regarding the Annual Report on Open Market Operations during 2024
Jun 3, 2025
Federal Open Market Committee Statements
New York Fed Open Market Trading Desk Statements
Data
Markets Data Dashboard
Effective Federal Funds Rate
System Open Market Account Holdings of Domestic Securities
H.4.1 Factors Affecting Reserve Balances
Related New York Fed Content
Annual Report on Open Market Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements
Securities Lending
Related External Content
Federal Reserve Board: Monetary Policy
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map