TARGET: New York Fed Press
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Financial Stability Considerations for Monetary Policy - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/conference/2022/financial-stability-considerations-monetary-policy

Financial Stability Considerations for Monetary Policy - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Museum & Visits
Regional Economy
Data & Statistics
Careers
Blog
Press Center
Menu
About the New York Fed
About the New York Fed
What We Do
Who We Are
Bank Leadership
Communities We Serve
Governance
Board of Directors
Disclosures
Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Annual Financial Statements
Org Chart
More About Us
News & Events
Advisory Groups
Vendor Information
Holiday Schedule
At the New  York Fed, our mission is to make the U.S. economy stronger and the financial system more stable for all segments of society. We do this by executing monetary policy, providing financial services, supervising banks and conducting research and providing expertise on issues that impact the nation and communities we serve.
The Teller Window is a publication featuring expert knowledge and insight from the New York Fed, including thoughts and perspectives from senior leaders.
Do you have a request for information and records? Learn how to submit it.
Learn about the history of the New York Fed and central banking in the United States through articles, speeches, photos and video.
Markets & Policy Implementation
Markets & Policy Implementation
DATA
Reference Rates
Effective Federal Funds Rate
Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SOFR Averages & Index
Broad General Collateral Rate
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate
Desk Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repos
Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Central Bank Liquidity Swaps
System Open Market Account Holdings
Primary Dealer Statistics
Historical Transaction Data
DOMESTIC MARKET OPERATIONS
Monetary Policy Implementation
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repos & Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Discount Window
Treasury Debt Auctions & Buybacks
as Fiscal Agent
INTERNATIONAL MARKET OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Reserves Management
Central Bank Swap Arrangements
ACROSS MARKETS
Statements & Operating Policies
Market Intelligence
Survey of Market Expectations
Annual Reports
Counterparties
Primary Dealers
Standing Repo Counterparties
Reverse Repo Counterparties
Foreign Exchange Counterparties
Foreign Reserves Management Counterparties
Operational Readiness
Central Bank & International Account Services
Programs Archive
Economic Research
Economic Research
U.S. Economy
Consumer Expectations & Behavior
Survey of Consumer Expectations
Household Debt & Credit Report
Home Price Changes
Growth & Inflation
Economic Heterogeneity Indicators (EHIs)
Multivariate Core Trend Inflation
New York Fed DSGE Model
New York Fed Staff Nowcast
R-star: Natural Rate of Interest
Labor Market
Labor Market for Recent College Graduates
Labor Market Tightness Index
Financial Stability
Corporate Bond Market Distress Index
Losses from Natural Disasters
Outlook-at-Risk
Treasury Term Premia
Yield Curve as a Leading Indicator
Banking
Banking Research Data Sets
Quarterly Trends for Consolidated U.S. Banking Organizations
Reserve Demand Elasticity
REGIONAL ECONOMY
Empire State Manufacturing Survey
Business Leaders Survey
Regional Business Surveys: Special Topics
Regional Employment Trends
Early Benchmarked Employment Data
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index
RESEARCHERS
Staff Economists
Visiting Scholars
Resident Scholars
PUBLICATIONS
Liberty Street Economics
Staff Reports
Economic Policy Review
Outside Journals
RESEARCH CENTERS
Applied Macroeconomics
& Econometrics Center (AMEC)
Center for Microeconomic Data (CMD)
CALENDAR
Economic Indicators Calendar
Financial Institution Supervision
Financial Institution Supervision
Supervision & Regulation
Circulars
Regulations
Reporting Forms & Instructions
Reporting Forms
Correspondence
Bank Applications
Consumer Protection
Community Reinvestment Act
Frauds and Scams
As part of our core mission, we supervise and regulate financial institutions in the Second District. Our primary objective is to maintain a safe and competitive U.S. and global banking system.
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Need to file a report with the New York Fed? Here are all of the forms, instructions and other information related to regulatory and statistical reporting in one spot.
The New York Fed works to protect consumers as well as provides information and resources on how to avoid and report specific scams.
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Operations
Services For Financial Institutions
Payment Services
Payment System Oversight
International Services, Seminars & Training
Financial Market Infrastructure & Reform
Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform
Managing Foreign Exchange
Money Market Funds
Over-The-Counter Derivatives
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works to promote sound and well-functioning financial systems and markets through its provision of industry and payment services, advancement of infrastructure reform in key markets and training and educational support
to international institutions.
The New York Innovation Center bridges the worlds of finance, technology, and innovation and generates insights into high-value central bank-related opportunities.
The growing role of nonbank financial institutions, or NBFIs, in U.S. financial markets is a transformational trend with implications for monetary policy and financial stability.
The New York Fed offers the Central Banking Seminar and several specialized courses for central bankers and financial supervisors.
Community Development
& Education
Community Development & Education
Community Development
Staff
Fed System Initiatives
Fed Communities
Fed Listens
Fed Small Business
Workforce Development
Other Community Development Work
Calendar
Economic Education
Programs
High School Fed Challenge
College Fed Challenge
Teacher Professional Development
Classroom Visits
Museum & Learning Center Visits
Resources
Educational Comic Books
Economist Spotlight Series
Lesson Plans and Resources
Economic Education Calendar
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Event
Financial Stability Considerations for Monetary Policy
September 30, 2022
Overview
The academic consensus has evolved to recognize that financial vulnerabilities have the potential to adversely affect the real economy and are also an inherent and largely procyclical part of the financial system. The Federal Reserve System organized a conference to garner the insights of researchers and policymakers on how monetary policy affects financial vulnerabilities and in turn how the state of the financial system interacts with the achievement of the maximum employment and price stability goals of monetary policy. The conference was co-led by Federal Reserve Board Vice Chair Lael Brainard and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John C. Williams, who gave opening and closing remarks. The conference also included a panel of current and former central bank policymakers to explore the themes of the conference, as well as paper presentations with discussants.
watch the event
Session I
Session II
Session III
Session IV
Session V
Session VI
Media
This event was by invitation-only for in-person attendees but was open to the public virtually. All remarks were on-the-record. For Media inquiries, please contact Mariah Measey at
mariah.measey@ny.frb.org
.
Organizers
William Bassett, Federal Reserve Board
Rochelle Edge, Federal Reserve Board
Anna Kovner, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Program Committee
Ozge Akinci, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Nina Boyarchenko, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Miguel Faria-e-Castro, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
Giovanni Favara, Federal Reserve Board
José Fillat, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
Scott Frame, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
François Gourio, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Benjamin Lester, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Thomas Mertens, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
Edward Prescott, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
Horacio Sapriza, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
Andres Schneider, Federal Reserve Board
Rajdeep Sengupta, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
Annette Vissing-Jørgensen, Federal Reserve Board
Event Details
Location
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
33 Liberty Street
New York, NY 10045
Agenda
8:30am
Registration and Continental Breakfast
9:00am
Welcoming Remarks
Lael Brainard, Vice Chair, Federal Reserve Board of Governors
9:15am
Financial Vulnerability and Monetary Policy
Tobias Adrian, International Monetary Fund
(Presenter)
Presentation
Fernando Duarte, Brown University
Discussant:
Moritz Lenel, Princeton University
Presentation
10:00am
The Financial (In)Stability Real Interest Rate, R**
Ozge Akinci, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
(Presenter)
Presentation
Gianluca Benigno, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Marco Del Negro, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Albert Queralto, Federal Reserve Board of Governors
Discussant:
Mark Gertler, New York University
Presentation
10:45am
Coffee Break
11:15am
Policy Panel
Ida Wolden Bache, Norges Bank
Claudia Buch, Bundesbank
Agustín Carstens, Bank for International Settlements
Donald Kohn, Brookings Institute
Moderator:
Kristin Forbes, MIT Sloan School of Management
12:30pm
Lunch
1:45pm
How Does Monetary Policy Affect Household Indebtedness?
Andreas Fagereng, BI Norwegian Business School
Magnus A. H. Gulbrandsen, Norges Bank
(Presenter)
Presentation
Martin B. Holm, University of Oslo
Gisle J. Natvik, BI Norwegian Business School
Discussant:
Stephanie Johnson, Rice University
Presentation
2:30pm
Refreshment Break
2:45pm
Nonbanks, Banks, and Monetary Policy: U.S. Loan-Level Evidence since the 1990s
David Elliott, Bank of England
Ralf R. Meisenzahl, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
José-Luis Peydró, Imperial College & Universitat Pompeu Fabra
(Presenter)
Presentation
Bryce C. Turner, Harvard Business School
Discussant:
Christa Bouwman, Mays Business School, Texas A&M University
Presentation
3:30pm
Leaning Against the Wind: An Empirical Cost-Benefit Analysis
Luis Brandão-Marques, International Monetary Fund
Gaston Gelos, International Monetary Fund
(Presenter)
Presentation
Machiko Narita, International Monetary Fund
Erlend Nier, International Monetary Fund
Discussant:
Matthew Baron, Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University
Presentation
4:15pm
Closing Remarks
John C. Williams, President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Speakers
Tobias Adrian
Financial Counsellor and Director of the Monetary and Capital Markets Department
International Monetary Fund
Ozge Akinci
Research Economist
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Ida Wolden Bache
Governor
Norges Bank
Matthew Baron
Assistant Professor
Cornell University
Christa H.S. Bouwman
Interim Head & Professor of Finance
Texas A&M University
Lael Brainard
Vice Chair
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Claudia M. Buch
Vice President
Bundesbank
Agustín Carstens
General Manager
Bank for International Settlements
Fernando Duarte
Lecturer in Economics
Brown University
Kristin Forbes
Professor, Global Economics and Management
MIT Sloan School of Management
Gaston Gelos
Assistant Director
International Monetary Fund
Mark Gertler
Professor of Economics
New York University
Magnus A. H. Gulbrandsen
Senior Economist
Norges Bank
Stephanie Johnson
Assistant Professor of Finance
Rice University
Donald Kohn
Senior Fellow - Economic Studies
Brookings Institute
Moritz Lenel
Assistant Professor of Economics
Princeton University
José-Luis Peydró
Professor of Finance
Imperial College Business School
John C. Williams
President and Chief Executive Officer
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map