TARGET: New York Fed Press
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Reference Rates - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/reference-rates

Reference Rates - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Museum & Visits
Regional Economy
Data & Statistics
Careers
Blog
Press Center
Menu
About the New York Fed
About the New York Fed
What We Do
Who We Are
Bank Leadership
Communities We Serve
Governance
Board of Directors
Disclosures
Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Annual Financial Statements
Org Chart
More About Us
News & Events
Advisory Groups
Vendor Information
Holiday Schedule
At the New  York Fed, our mission is to make the U.S. economy stronger and the financial system more stable for all segments of society. We do this by executing monetary policy, providing financial services, supervising banks and conducting research and providing expertise on issues that impact the nation and communities we serve.
The Teller Window is a publication featuring expert knowledge and insight from the New York Fed, including thoughts and perspectives from senior leaders.
Do you have a request for information and records? Learn how to submit it.
Learn about the history of the New York Fed and central banking in the United States through articles, speeches, photos and video.
Markets & Policy Implementation
Markets & Policy Implementation
DATA
Reference Rates
Effective Federal Funds Rate
Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SOFR Averages & Index
Broad General Collateral Rate
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate
Desk Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repos
Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Central Bank Liquidity Swaps
System Open Market Account Holdings
Primary Dealer Statistics
Historical Transaction Data
DOMESTIC MARKET OPERATIONS
Monetary Policy Implementation
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repos & Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Discount Window
Treasury Debt Auctions & Buybacks
as Fiscal Agent
INTERNATIONAL MARKET OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Reserves Management
Central Bank Swap Arrangements
ACROSS MARKETS
Statements & Operating Policies
Market Intelligence
Survey of Market Expectations
Annual Reports
Counterparties
Primary Dealers
Standing Repo Counterparties
Reverse Repo Counterparties
Foreign Exchange Counterparties
Foreign Reserves Management Counterparties
Operational Readiness
Central Bank & International Account Services
Programs Archive
Economic Research
Economic Research
U.S. Economy
Consumer Expectations & Behavior
Survey of Consumer Expectations
Household Debt & Credit Report
Home Price Changes
Growth & Inflation
Economic Heterogeneity Indicators (EHIs)
Multivariate Core Trend Inflation
New York Fed DSGE Model
New York Fed Staff Nowcast
R-star: Natural Rate of Interest
Labor Market
Labor Market for Recent College Graduates
Labor Market Tightness Index
Financial Stability
Corporate Bond Market Distress Index
Losses from Natural Disasters
Outlook-at-Risk
Treasury Term Premia
Yield Curve as a Leading Indicator
Banking
Banking Research Data Sets
Quarterly Trends for Consolidated U.S. Banking Organizations
Reserve Demand Elasticity
REGIONAL ECONOMY
Empire State Manufacturing Survey
Business Leaders Survey
Regional Business Surveys: Special Topics
Regional Employment Trends
Early Benchmarked Employment Data
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index
RESEARCHERS
Staff Economists
Visiting Scholars
Resident Scholars
PUBLICATIONS
Liberty Street Economics
Staff Reports
Economic Policy Review
Outside Journals
RESEARCH CENTERS
Applied Macroeconomics
& Econometrics Center (AMEC)
Center for Microeconomic Data (CMD)
CALENDAR
Economic Indicators Calendar
Financial Institution Supervision
Financial Institution Supervision
Supervision & Regulation
Circulars
Regulations
Reporting Forms & Instructions
Reporting Forms
Correspondence
Bank Applications
Consumer Protection
Community Reinvestment Act
Frauds and Scams
As part of our core mission, we supervise and regulate financial institutions in the Second District. Our primary objective is to maintain a safe and competitive U.S. and global banking system.
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Need to file a report with the New York Fed? Here are all of the forms, instructions and other information related to regulatory and statistical reporting in one spot.
The New York Fed works to protect consumers as well as provides information and resources on how to avoid and report specific scams.
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Operations
Services For Financial Institutions
Payment Services
Payment System Oversight
International Services, Seminars & Training
Financial Market Infrastructure & Reform
Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform
Managing Foreign Exchange
Money Market Funds
Over-The-Counter Derivatives
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works to promote sound and well-functioning financial systems and markets through its provision of industry and payment services, advancement of infrastructure reform in key markets and training and educational support
to international institutions.
The New York Innovation Center bridges the worlds of finance, technology, and innovation and generates insights into high-value central bank-related opportunities.
The growing role of nonbank financial institutions, or NBFIs, in U.S. financial markets is a transformational trend with implications for monetary policy and financial stability.
The New York Fed offers the Central Banking Seminar and several specialized courses for central bankers and financial supervisors.
Community Development
& Education
Community Development & Education
Community Development
Staff
Fed System Initiatives
Fed Communities
Fed Listens
Fed Small Business
Workforce Development
Other Community Development Work
Calendar
Economic Education
Programs
High School Fed Challenge
College Fed Challenge
Teacher Professional Development
Classroom Visits
Museum & Learning Center Visits
Resources
Educational Comic Books
Economist Spotlight Series
Lesson Plans and Resources
Economic Education Calendar
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Reference Rates
The New York Fed produces a number of reference rates that provide insight into the dynamics of money markets, which is useful for evaluating the effectiveness of monetary policy implementation.
Reference rates play several important roles in financial markets that support efficient market functioning. They facilitate trading in standardized contracts, which can lower transaction costs and improve market liquidity. They can reduce information asymmetries by providing a transparent, independent pricing source. And a well-designed, robust reference rate that is resistant to manipulation can limit participants’ incentives to misreport pricing for settling a contract.
The New York Fed has served as an
administrator and producer of reference rates
since at least the 1950s, when it began publishing the daily effective federal funds rate. The New York Fed is committed to producing robust and resilient reference rates that are aligned with international best practices, including IOSCO's Principles for Financial Benchmarks. The New York Fed's reference rates are
compliant with these best practices
.
Effective Federal Funds Rate (EFFR)
The EFFR is calculated using data on overnight federal funds transactions provided by domestic banks and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks, as reported in the FR 2420 Report of Selected Money Market Rates.
Overnight Bank Funding Rate (OBFR)
The OBFR is calculated using the same federal funds transaction data that are included in the EFFR, as well as certain overnight Eurodollar transaction data and certain overnight deposit transactions that are placed at domestic bank branches, as reported in the FR 2420, including unsecured borrowings of U.S. dollars booked at international banking facilities and at offshore branches that are managed or controlled by a U.S. banking office.
For more information, see Additional Information about Reference Rates Administered by the New York Fed.
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR)
The SOFR provides a broad measure of the general cost of financing Treasury securities overnight, and is calculated based on the data used for the BGCR, as defined below, plus transactions cleared through the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation's (FICC) Delivery-versus-Payment repo service.
SOFR Averages and Index
The SOFR Averages are backward-looking, compounded averages of realized overnight SOFR with tenors of 30-, 90-, and 180-calendar days. The SOFR Index reflects the cumulative impact of compounding SOFR each business day since April 2, 2018, when it was first published, and allows for the calculation of compounded average rates over custom time periods.
Broad General Collateral Rate (BGCR)
The BGCR provides a measure of the rate on overnight Treasury general collateral (GC) repo transactions, and is calculated based on the same tri-party repo transactions used for the TGCR, as defined below, plus General Collateral Finance (GCF) repo transactions cleared through the FICC's GCF Repo service.
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate (TGCR)
The TGCR provides a measure of the rate on overnight, tri-party GC repo transactions secured by Treasury securities, both centrally cleared and non-centrally cleared, that are executed between counterparties that know each other's identity at the time of the trade, and is calculated based on data collected from the Bank of New York Mellon and the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research (OFR).
For more information, see Additional Information about Reference Rates Administered by the New York Fed.
Find the Rates on the Markets Data Dashboard
Announcements
Statement Regarding the Publication of Reference Rates on Friday, April 3, 2026
Mar 12, 2026
Statement on IOSCO Compliance for Federal Reserve Bank of New York Administered Reference Rates
Jul 17, 2025
Data
Historical Search for Effective Federal Funds Rate
Historical Search for Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Markets Data Dashboard
Markets Data APIs
Related New York Fed Content
The Role of the New York Fed as Administrator and Producer of Reference Rates
IOSCO Compliance
Introducing the Revised Broad Treasuries Financing Rate
Investigating the Proposed Overnight Treasury GC Repo Benchmark Rates
The Eurodollar Market in the United States
The FR 2420 Data Collection: A New Base for the Fed Funds Rate
Annual Report on Open Market Operations
Alternative Reference Rates Committee
Related External Content
Reporting Form: FR 2420 Report of Selected Money Market Rates
IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmarks
FEDS Notes: The Cleared Bilateral Repo Market and Proposed Repo Benchmark Rates
receive e-mail alerts for this page
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map