TARGET: New York Fed News
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Labor Market Expectations Soften Slightly, but Delinquency Expectations Improve - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/research/2026/20260309

Labor Market Expectations Soften Slightly, but Delinquency Expectations Improve - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
Museum & Visits
Regional Economy
Data & Statistics
Careers
Blog
Press Center
Menu
About the New York Fed
About the New York Fed
What We Do
Who We Are
Bank Leadership
Communities We Serve
Governance
Board of Directors
Disclosures
Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Annual Financial Statements
Org Chart
More About Us
News & Events
Advisory Groups
Vendor Information
Holiday Schedule
At the New  York Fed, our mission is to make the U.S. economy stronger and the financial system more stable for all segments of society. We do this by executing monetary policy, providing financial services, supervising banks and conducting research and providing expertise on issues that impact the nation and communities we serve.
The Teller Window is a publication featuring expert knowledge and insight from the New York Fed, including thoughts and perspectives from senior leaders.
Do you have a request for information and records? Learn how to submit it.
Learn about the history of the New York Fed and central banking in the United States through articles, speeches, photos and video.
Markets & Policy Implementation
Markets & Policy Implementation
DATA
Reference Rates
Effective Federal Funds Rate
Overnight Bank Funding Rate
Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SOFR Averages & Index
Broad General Collateral Rate
Tri-Party General Collateral Rate
Desk Operations
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Repos
Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Central Bank Liquidity Swaps
System Open Market Account Holdings
Primary Dealer Statistics
Historical Transaction Data
DOMESTIC MARKET OPERATIONS
Monetary Policy Implementation
Treasury Securities
Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
Agency Debt Securities
Repos & Reverse Repos
Securities Lending
Discount Window
Treasury Debt Auctions & Buybacks
as Fiscal Agent
INTERNATIONAL MARKET OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange
Foreign Reserves Management
Central Bank Swap Arrangements
ACROSS MARKETS
Statements & Operating Policies
Market Intelligence
Survey of Market Expectations
Annual Reports
Counterparties
Primary Dealers
Standing Repo Counterparties
Reverse Repo Counterparties
Foreign Exchange Counterparties
Foreign Reserves Management Counterparties
Operational Readiness
Central Bank & International Account Services
Programs Archive
Economic Research
Economic Research
U.S. Economy
Consumer Expectations & Behavior
Survey of Consumer Expectations
Household Debt & Credit Report
Home Price Changes
Growth & Inflation
Economic Heterogeneity Indicators (EHIs)
Multivariate Core Trend Inflation
New York Fed DSGE Model
New York Fed Staff Nowcast
R-star: Natural Rate of Interest
Labor Market
Labor Market for Recent College Graduates
Labor Market Tightness Index
Financial Stability
Corporate Bond Market Distress Index
Losses from Natural Disasters
Outlook-at-Risk
Treasury Term Premia
Yield Curve as a Leading Indicator
Banking
Banking Research Data Sets
Quarterly Trends for Consolidated U.S. Banking Organizations
Reserve Demand Elasticity
REGIONAL ECONOMY
Empire State Manufacturing Survey
Business Leaders Survey
Regional Business Surveys: Special Topics
Regional Employment Trends
Early Benchmarked Employment Data
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index
RESEARCHERS
Staff Economists
Visiting Scholars
Resident Scholars
PUBLICATIONS
Liberty Street Economics
Staff Reports
Economic Policy Review
Outside Journals
RESEARCH CENTERS
Applied Macroeconomics
& Econometrics Center (AMEC)
Center for Microeconomic Data (CMD)
CALENDAR
Economic Indicators Calendar
Financial Institution Supervision
Financial Institution Supervision
Supervision & Regulation
Circulars
Regulations
Reporting Forms & Instructions
Reporting Forms
Correspondence
Bank Applications
Consumer Protection
Community Reinvestment Act
Frauds and Scams
As part of our core mission, we supervise and regulate financial institutions in the Second District. Our primary objective is to maintain a safe and competitive U.S. and global banking system.
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Need to file a report with the New York Fed? Here are all of the forms, instructions and other information related to regulatory and statistical reporting in one spot.
The New York Fed works to protect consumers as well as provides information and resources on how to avoid and report specific scams.
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Infrastructure
Financial Services & Operations
Services For Financial Institutions
Payment Services
Payment System Oversight
International Services, Seminars & Training
Financial Market Infrastructure & Reform
Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform
Managing Foreign Exchange
Money Market Funds
Over-The-Counter Derivatives
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York works to promote sound and well-functioning financial systems and markets through its provision of industry and payment services, advancement of infrastructure reform in key markets and training and educational support
to international institutions.
The New York Innovation Center bridges the worlds of finance, technology, and innovation and generates insights into high-value central bank-related opportunities.
The growing role of nonbank financial institutions, or NBFIs, in U.S. financial markets is a transformational trend with implications for monetary policy and financial stability.
The New York Fed offers the Central Banking Seminar and several specialized courses for central bankers and financial supervisors.
Community Development
& Education
Community Development & Education
Community Development
Staff
Fed System Initiatives
Fed Communities
Fed Listens
Fed Small Business
Workforce Development
Other Community Development Work
Calendar
Economic Education
Programs
High School Fed Challenge
College Fed Challenge
Teacher Professional Development
Classroom Visits
Museum & Learning Center Visits
Resources
Educational Comic Books
Economist Spotlight Series
Lesson Plans and Resources
Economic Education Calendar
The Governance & Culture Reform hub is designed to foster discussion about corporate governance and the reform of culture and behavior in the financial services industry.
Press Release
Labor Market Expectations Soften Slightly, but Delinquency Expectations Improve
March 09, 2026
NEW YORK—The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Center for Microeconomic Data today released  the February 2026
Survey of Consumer  Expectations
,  which shows that households’ inflation expectations declined at the short-term  horizon and remained unchanged at the medium- and longer-term horizons. Labor  market expectations saw a modest slowdown as earnings growth expectations  declined, voluntary job separation probabilities decreased, and confidence in  finding new employment weakened, despite a small improvement in job loss and overall  unemployment expectations. Expectations for future  credit access and missing a minimum debt payment improved. The survey was  fielded from February 2 through February 28, 2026.
The main findings from the February 2026 Survey  are:
Inflation
Median  inflation expectations in February declined by 0.1 percentage point at the  one-year-ahead horizon to 3.0% and remained steady at the three-year and five-year-ahead  horizons at 3.0%. The survey’s measure of disagreement across respondents (the  difference between the 75th and 25th percentile of inflation expectations) decreased  at all horizons.
Median inflation uncertainty—or the  uncertainty expressed regarding future inflation outcomes—decreased at all horizons.
Median home price  growth expectations increased by 0.1 percentage point to 3.0%, its trailing  12-month average.
Median  year-ahead commodity price change expectations decreased by 0.4  percentage point for food to 5.3%, 0.1 percentage point for the cost of medical care to 9.7%, and 0.9  percentage point for rent to 5.9%. The February reading for rent is the lowest  since December 2024. Median year-ahead price change expectations increased by  1.3 percentage points for gas to 4.1% and 0.1 percentage point for the cost of  a college education to 9.1%.
Labor Market
Median one-year-ahead  earnings growth expectations decreased in February by 0.2 percentage point to  2.5%, just below the trailing 12-month average of 2.6%.  The decrease was  driven by respondents aged over 40.
Mean unemployment expectations—or  the mean probability that the U.S. unemployment rate will be higher one year  from now—decreased  by 2.0 percentage points to 39.9%.
The mean perceived probability of  losing one's job in the next 12 months decreased by 1.0 percentage point to  13.8%, falling slightly below the trailing 12-month average of 14.6%. The mean  probability of leaving one's job voluntarily, or the expected quit rate, in the  next 12 months decreased  by 2.8 percentage points to 15.9%, a new  series low.
The mean perceived probability of  finding a job in the next three months if one’s current job was lost decreased by 1.6 percentage  points to 44.0%, just  slightly above the series low reached in December 2025.
Household Finance
The  median expected growth in household income remained unchanged at 2.9% in  February, equaling its trailing 12-month average.
Median  nominal household spending growth expectations remained unchanged at 4.9%,  equal to the trailing 12-month average.
Perceptions  of credit access compared to a year ago deteriorated slightly, with more  respondents reporting it is harder to obtain credit than a year ago.  Expectations for future credit availability improved, with the net share of  households expecting it is easier versus harder to obtain credit one year from  now increasing.
The  average perceived probability of missing a  minimum debt payment over the next three months decreased  by 2.1 percentage points to 11.6%, its lowest level since February 2024.
The  median expectation regarding a year-ahead change in taxes at current income  level decreased by 0.1 percentage point  to 2.9%.
Median  year-ahead expected growth in government debt decreased by 0.1 percentage point  to 9.2%, remaining well above the trailing 12-month average of 7.1%.
The  mean perceived probability that the average interest rate on saving accounts  will be higher in 12 months decreased by 0.9  percentage point to 24.9%.
Perceptions  about households' current financial situations compared to a year ago improved,  with a smaller share of respondents reporting that their households were worse  off compared to a year ago, and a larger share reporting they were better off.  Expectations about year-ahead financial situations remained steady, with the  net share of households reporting expecting a worse versus better situation a  year from now remaining relatively unchanged.
The  mean perceived probability that U.S. stock prices will be higher 12 months from  now decreased by 1.2 percentage points  to 37.9%.
About  the Survey of Consumer Expectations (SCE)
The SCE contains information about how consumers expect overall  inflation and prices for food, gas, housing, and education to behave. It also  provides insight into Americans’ views about job prospects and earnings growth  and their expectations about future spending and access to credit. The SCE also  provides measures of uncertainty regarding consumers’ outlooks. Expectations  are also available by age, geography, income, education, and numeracy.
The SCE  is a nationally representative, internet-based survey of a rotating panel of  approximately 1,200 household heads. Respondents participate in the panel for  up to 12 months, with a roughly equal number rotating in and out of the panel  each month. Unlike comparable surveys based on repeated cross-sections with a  different set of respondents in each wave, this panel allows us to observe the  changes in expectations and behavior of the same individuals over time. For  further information on the SCE, please refer to an overview of the survey  methodology
here
,  the
FAQs
, the
interactive  chart guide
, and the survey
questionnaire
.
Contact
Connor
Munsch
(347) 224-1175
Connor.Munsch@ny.frb.org
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map