TARGET: Philadelphia Fed The Economy
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: About Us
URL: https://www.philadelphiafed.org/about-us

About Us
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
skip to main content
skip to footer
Search
Expand Menu
About Us
Our People
Education
Banking
Careers
Calendar of Events
The Economy
Expand Sub-Topics
Monetary Policy
Banking & Financial Markets
Macroeconomics
Regional Economics
Consumer Finance
Expand Sub-Topics
Payment Systems
Consumer Credit
Education Finance
Mortgage Markets
Community Development
Expand Sub-Topics
Inclusive Growth
Credit & Capital
Housing & Neighborhoods
Workforce & Economic Development
SURVEYS & DATA
Expand Sub-Topics
REAL-TIME DATA RESEARCH
Regional Economic Analysis
CONSUMER FINANCE DATA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DATA
Search
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
About Us
About Us
The Federal Reserve System includes 12 independent regional Reserve Banks located across the U.S. and the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in Washington, D.C. The Philadelphia Fed is the home of the Federal Reserve’s Third District, serving Delaware, southern New Jersey, and eastern and central Pennsylvania.
Scroll Backward
What We Do
Newsroom
Governance & Transparency
Scroll Forward
Our Focus
We are the nation’s central bank, committed to a sound financial system and a strong, healthy economy. We foster the stability, integrity, and efficiency of our nation’s monetary, financial, and payments systems. We create conditions that generate jobs, promote price stability, and promote inclusive economic growth, and fair and impartial credit access.
Our Principles
At the Philadelphia Fed, we strive to create a community where everyone feels a sense of belonging. We believe that economic inclusion in the Third District and the nation is vital to the Fed’s mission to encourage maximum employment and financial stability. The Philadelphia Fed and the economy work better when all voices are heard.
The Third District
Home to over 13.3 million people in Delaware, southern New Jersey, and eastern and central Pennsylvania. That's 4.6 percent of the country's population in just 1 percent of the country's land.
The three states combined have nearly the same employment shares as the overall U.S. in the trade, transportation, and utilities sectors and the professional and business services sectors.
The District has slightly higher employment in the education and health services sectors than that of the nation.
Newsroom
Speech
Monetary Policy and Productivity
27 March ’26
Speech
Discussion Points on “Private Canaries: The Value of Private-Sector Data for U.S. Monetary Policy Making”
06 March ’26
Speech
Economic Trends and Opportunities for Philadelphia
14 January ’26
Request a Speaker
The Bank offers a variety of expert speakers on a range of topics related to our work. You can request an appearance by a Bank employee by completing our request form with information about your upcoming event.
Annual Report
Annual Reports and Financial Statements
25 Mar ’26
View our audited annual financial statements and browse the annual report archives.
Contact Us
Ten Independence Mall
Philadelphia, PA 19106
(215) 574-6000
Privacy Notice
Newsroom
Subscribe
Contact
Copyright 2026. All rights reserved. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia