TARGET: Philadelphia Fed The Economy
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Education
URL: https://www.philadelphiafed.org/education

Education
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
skip to main content
skip to footer
Search
Expand Menu
About Us
Our People
Education
Banking
Careers
Calendar of Events
The Economy
Expand Sub-Topics
Monetary Policy
Banking & Financial Markets
Macroeconomics
Regional Economics
Consumer Finance
Expand Sub-Topics
Payment Systems
Consumer Credit
Education Finance
Mortgage Markets
Community Development
Expand Sub-Topics
Inclusive Growth
Credit & Capital
Housing & Neighborhoods
Workforce & Economic Development
SURVEYS & DATA
Expand Sub-Topics
REAL-TIME DATA RESEARCH
Regional Economic Analysis
CONSUMER FINANCE DATA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DATA
Search
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Education
Education
Teaching the knowledge and skills that help people make sound financial decisions is a key part of the Fed’s core responsibility to support economically healthy households and communities. We offer resources for K–12 teachers and consumers.
Scroll Backward
Teacher Training Programs
Lesson Plans
Economics and History
Scroll Forward
About
Keys to Financial Success
Keys to Financial Success is a complete course plan for teaching personal finance to high school students. It is composed of 47 lessons designed to help you teach your students about personal finance using active and collaborative learning. There is a $50 registration fee for the professional development portion of the Keys to Financial Success; however, materials and program information are free.
Resources for Economic Educators
Visit the Federal Reserve Education website to access free learning materials to help bring personal finance and economics lessons to your classroom or community.
Learn More
About
A Day in the Life of the FOMC
Learn more about the FOMC and the inner workings of the Federal Reserve’s monetary policymaking body.
About
Money in Motion Is Currently Closed
25 Apr ’25
As of Friday, April 25, Money in Motion exhibit has been decommissioned for the construction of a new public exhibit to be opened in 2026. Please stay tuned to our website for updates in 2026.
Article
Making the Grade in Economic Education
by
Mary Godleski-Cantin
23 Oct ’25
Every year, teachers visit the Philadelphia Fed to learn about money, personal finance, banking, and more. The Bank’s Economic Education team provides programs and resources to help educators teach these topics in their classrooms.
Order Education Publications
The Philadelphia Fed promotes economic and financial literacy and a greater understanding of the economy and the role of the Federal Reserve System.
Learn more
about our Education publications and how to order.
Federal Reserve History
Explore the history and functions of the Federal Reserve on this resource from the Federal Reserve System.
Federal Reserve History
Contact Us
Ten Independence Mall
Philadelphia, PA 19106
(215) 574-6000
Privacy Notice
Newsroom
Subscribe
Contact
Copyright 2026. All rights reserved. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia