TARGET: RBA Speeches
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Media conference: Monetary Policy Decision – 17 March 2026 | Speeches | RBA
URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2026/mc-gov-2026-03-17.html
INDEX_URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/
ARTICLE_URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2026/mc-gov-2026-03-17.html
CANONICAL_URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2026/mc-gov-2026-03-17.html
PAGE_TITLE: Media conference: Monetary Policy Decision – 17 March 2026 | Speeches | RBA
H1: Media conference Monetary Policy Decision
PUBLISHED_AT: 2026-03-17T15:30+11:00
PAGE_TYPE: speech
EXPECTED_LANGUAGE: en
DETECTED_LANGUAGE: en
CONTENT_WORD_COUNT: 7069
EXTRACTION_WARNINGS: 

Media conference
Monetary Policy Decision
Michele Bullock
Governor
Sydney
–
17 March 2026
Audio
41.6MB
Watch video: Media conference held on 17 March 2026, Sydney
Transcript
Michele Bullock
Thank you for coming. Today as you know, the Board decided to raise the cash rate by
25 basis points to 4.1 per cent. The data we’ve seen since the February meeting has
shown that the economy grew faster than its potential growth rate over the second half of last year. The
labour market has tightened a little recently, rather than being stable as we’d expected, and
underlying inflation remains high. Taken together, the data suggests there is slightly more excess demand
in the economy than we thought in February, and inflationary pressures are therefore somewhat greater.
This is before considering what higher energy prices arising from the conflict in the Middle east could
mean for our economy. Higher petrol prices will add to inflation, but they’re not the reason for
today’s decision. Inflation was already too high, reflecting the fact that demand is outstripping
supply. Higher fuel costs will not slow demand enough on their own to address this. If we do not act,
these price pressures will spread and the eventual adjustment would be harder. This all suggests that the
risks to inflation have tilted to the upside. We must also ensure that higher inflation does not result
in inflation expectations drifting up. Short term expectations for inflation have moved up a bit, but we
need to ensure that this does not translate into higher inflation expectations over the longer term.
Longer run inflation expectations will only remain anchored if people are convinced that we will take
action to bring inflation back to target.
The Board concluded that the cash rate was not at a level consistent with returning inflation to target
within a reasonable time frame. If the Middle East conflicts get worse or are not resolved soon, higher
fuel costs will push inflation here even higher. There’s also a risk that global growth slows, which
could flow onto lower growth here. But even abstracting from the global environment, domestic inflation
remains too high and high inflation hurts all Australians. We had a very robust conversation over the
past two days about whether we should hold until May. This would have given us an opportunity to consider
more data on inflation and the labour market. And it would also have perhaps provided a bit more clarity
on the potential impact of the conflict in the Middle East. But the discussion was very much centred
around the timing of a rate increase. All members agreed that another rate increase was needed to address
domestic inflationary pressures.
Ultimately, with inflation that is already too high, the balance of risk tilted to the upside on
inflation. The Board decided raising the cash rate was the right call. The Board will continue to be
guided by incoming data and what it tells us about the economy and the outlook. Thank you and I’m
happy now to take your questions.
Patrick Commins
Thanks Governor, Patrick Commins from Guardian Australia. There was obviously a split
decision. Five voted in favour and then four voted in favour of a hold. The statement comes across as
quite a united, almost vision of inflation and the need to hike the interest rates. But the split
decision would suggest that it was a lot closer run than that. Can you tell us a little bit more about
what the arguments were in favour of holding the cash rate? Were they worried about the growth outlook
and the ultimate impact of the global energy shock? What were the main reasons?
Michele Bullock
So I mentioned it in my opening remarks. But it’s worth mentioning again. The things
that all the members agreed on were that inflation is too high, that there are still inflationary
pressures from excess demand in the economy and that inflation expectations, we need to make sure
they’re anchored. Where the difference was, was in the timing. The members that voted to hold were
voting to hold in a hawkish sense. They were still focused on the fact that there’d probably need to
be another rate rise. The reason for holding, I think was twofold. One was that with all the things going
on in the Middle East, it wasn’t quite certain what was going to happen there, and it could be quick
and it could all be resolved, or if it wasn’t, what the potential implications of that might be for
growth in the world economy and growth in Australia. And so maybe it was prudent just to wait for another
seven weeks, which it is to the next meeting and just see. So the uncertainty was a big thing there. The
second thing was again some more confirmation in data from labour market and inflation in particular that
we are where we thought we would be. It harks back a little bit to the July decision last year where we
had a split vote you’ll remember coming down, the minority wanted to go in July and the majority
decided to wait. Similar concept. So the issue wasn’t the direction, the issue was really the timing
and. And it came down, I think, to different judgements. Reasonable people can differ, I think, in the
circumstances we’re in on where the risks lie and the relative weights they put on those risks. So
I’d say they put more weight on the uncertainty and wanting a little bit more information and
certainty before moving, but the direction wasn’t the issue.
Lea Jurkovic
Thanks Governor Lea Jurkovic from the Australian Financial Review. Given the options seem to
be raise rates or a hawkish hold, was there all that much debate about how much the Board will continue
to lean on the full employment side of the mandate? And did the Board discuss their tolerance at all for
needing to generate some spare capacity in the domestic economy to offset these repeated inflation
shocks?
Michele Bullock
So yes, the labour market always gets a good going over and I think there’s general
agreement that the labour market is in a much better place than we thought it was, and that the risks now
are more on the upside for inflation than they are on the downside for employment. That doesn’t mean
there wasn’t a good debate about it. There was. And the Board’s strategy has still not changed.
The Board’s strategy is still to try and bring inflation back without excess employment … try
to maintain as many of the gains as we can employment. We don’t want to see a recession or a large rise
in unemployment if we can avoid it. That’s part of our dual mandate. So it was considered. But at
the moment the risks just tip more to the inflation side given the position that the labour market is
currently in.
John Rolfe
Governor John Rolfe from the Telegraph and Herald Sun. Petrol is up about $40 a tank.
Last month the Reserve pushed up the cost of the average mortgage by about $110 a month. Another
$110 a month now. It’s difficult to give up the commute. It’s difficult, no one wants to
give up their mortgage. What do you suggest that households cut?
Michele Bullock
Well, let me first say John, that I understand that this is tough news for people with
mortgages. I understand that. And the fact that petrol prices are up so substantially as well is just
another problem. My issue though is that, and the Board’s challenge, is that if we don’t raise
interest rates and we’re going to see second round effects coming from petrol prices and fuel
prices, they’ll get into supply chains. Obviously it’s going to go into businesses costs and so
on. If we don’t bring the excess demand down, then businesses are just going to build that into
their costs. So it’s going to be even worse for everyone. So I personally cannot tell people how to
manage their finances but I do understand that it’s going to be tough for some people and this hit
with fuel prices and this additional rise in mortgage rates is going to be hard for some people. I do
understand that. But it will be much worse if inflation gets built into the fibres and then we will see
the costs of everything going up and that will be a much worse outcome.
Chris Kohler
Governor Chris Kohler from Nine News. Following on from John’s question there, do you
think the Reserve Bank has a communication issue or is there an understanding issue among Australians?
Because millions of them will be saying this afternoon, ok, my fuel bill has gone up the cost of
everything’s gone up and now keeping a roof over my head in the form of mortgage or rent goes up as
well. Are they on Board with the plan here to get inflation under control or not?
Michele Bullock
So we have tried, I think, very hard to explain why it is that we only have one
instrument and that is the interest rate. And the interest rate works through a few channels, and
I’ll try to set them out in simple terms. The first is obviously what we call the cash flow channel.
So that is those people that have mortgages pay more on interest and that means that they have less spare
money. So that’s the cash flow channel. There’s two other channels. There’s one which is
basically, if you put interest rates up, people are encouraged to save more and spend less now. So that
puts a bit of downward pressure on demand. And the third and quite important channel is the exchange
rate. And as the exchange rate rises, it puts downward pressure on inflation. It makes imports cheaper.
People tend to buy imported goods rather than domestic, and so it puts less pressure on the domestic side
of things. So that’s how I try to explain to people how the interest rate works its way through.
Now, having said that, I understand that for people with mortgages, all they see is the cash flow and
it’s tough. But as I’ve said, and I said in response to John, you know, if we don’t do
what we think we need to do to bring inflation down, ultimately the outcome is worse for people. And
people haven’t seen high inflation. Up until ‘22 or so, people hadn’t seen high inflation
in decades. And that gave people a taste of what if you let inflation get a roll on how hard it will be
continually for people. So it is hard, I understand that, but it is the only instrument we have and it is
important that we get inflation down.
Edward Boyd
Governor Edward Boyd at Sky News. You mentioned the word recession just a minute ago. I mean,
if the war in Iran continues indefinitely, Strait of Hormuz remains shut. I mean, how concerned is the
RBA Board about this looming recession risk?
Michele Bullock
Well, we don’t know what’s going to happen in that context. And in fact,
there’s been lots of predictions that the world economy would, particularly after the tariff
problems in early ‘25, that the world would go into recession, that abated, and the world economy
actually ended up doing ok, doing quite well in some cases. It’s still possible, if this resolves,
that everything will turn out ok. Having said that, the Board is alert to risks of that nature and if
circumstances change, and if it does look like the world economy is in big trouble, then that will have
different implications for inflation and we will be looking very hard at what we need to do in those
circumstances. That’s all by way of saying that the Board is going to be monitoring this stuff very
closely and if we have to change tack, we will.
Matt Cranston
Matt Cranston from the Australian. Last week, well into the Iran war, UBS put out a note
and said this direct quote. Australian government payments are booming 8 per cent year on year
in an economy operating above potential. The RBA concedes this adds to capacity and inflation pressure.
In the December quarter, we saw that public demand increased or grew more than twice that of private
demand. And in your statement today you do make mention of the composition being a surprise in the
December quarter. My question is this. How much more difficult has that really high rate of public
demand
made your decision today? And in your attempts to address excess demand, what would be better? A slight
easing in private or public demand, or both?
Michele Bullock
You’re asking me to make a value judgment which I’m not going to make, Matt.
You know as well as I do that aggregate demand is C plus I plus G plus X minus M. That’s what it
is.
And so therefore, if G goes up, then that adds to aggregate demand. If I goes up, that adds to aggregate
demand. So we take that as given and we set policy appropriate for what we think will be enough to bring
aggregate demand in line with aggregate supply. Value judgements on private versus public are not for me
to make. They are for the government.
David Chau
Hi, Governor David Chau from ABC News. My question is, if necessary, would you be prepared to
put Australia into recession if that’s what it takes to bring inflation much lower?
Michele Bullock
Well, we don’t want to do that, David. The strategy, as I said earlier, is still the
same. We still want to bring the output gap down at the same time as we bring inflation down. And
we’ve been trying to do that and we think we had some success, but inflation has sprung up again.
And so I wouldn’t say we want to do that. But the bottom line is that in the end, if we don’t
have low and stable inflation over time, we won’t have full employment. It doesn’t work like
that. Best contribution we can make to full employment and in fact to things like investment and
productivity and so on, is to have low and stable inflation. So we do need to keep our eye focused on
that ball. We don’t want to have a recession, but if it’s hard to get inflation down, then you
know we’re going to have to deal with that possibly.
Matt Wade
Thanks. Governor Matt Wade from the Sydney Morning Herald. Two parts to my question. One is
what would be the effect on the economy if oil prices stay at $100 a barrel or indeed move higher
to
say $150? Has the Bank investigated or modelled that type of scenario, if it was to remain that way for
an extended period and if so, what did you find? And my second part, sorry, I was also saying it was a
split decision. My question is if the Bank has kind of got mixed views or the members of the committee
have mixed views, how can borrowers have full confidence that it was the right decision?
Michele Bullock
On the second one, I think they should take a great deal of confidence in the fact that
it was a split decision because it shows that the Board, unlike some people think, actually actively
debates and challenges and we bring lots of different views to the Board. So I think that strengthens
the
decision making process, not weakens it. It’s actually a much better decision making process and I
think that demonstrates it. We haven’t fully modelled, in answer your question, we’ve done
some
modelling on sort of just very first round pass throughs of petrol price rises to inflation. But we
haven’t done any modelling on potential impacts if the war goes on and there’s
continued … So that’s something obviously we’re looking at. I think Treasury
is
looking at as well, but we haven’t done anything on that yet.
Stella Qiu
Hi, Governor Stella Qiu from Reuters. Did the RBA recommend a rate hike to the Board at the
meeting this week? Because it does feel like you and Deputy Governor, you’re pushing for the case
to
hike before the meeting. And if you can’t tell us that, are you defending a rate hike you
didn’t personally vote for?
Michele Bullock
Okay, I’m going to answer neither of those. What I will say is no, I won’t tell
you what the recommendation was. What I would say though is that you characterise the Deputy Governor
and
I of actually agitating for a hike in our comments. I would actually push back against that entirely.
All
I said in my remarks, my fireside chat, was that March is a live meeting. Every meeting is a live
meeting. There is new information. That was what I said. Right. And the Deputy Governor, as far as I can
tell reading his remarks, was that here is the arguments for holding, here are the arguments for
raising.
He did not express a view one way or the other. So I would push back against that. But I won’t tell
you what the recommendation was. But again, I would go back to the point that this was an actively, very
active discussion. The direction wasn’t the issue, it was the timing.
Tom Richardson
Hi, Governor Tom Richardson from The Nightly. You said in your comments earlier that the
jobs market was perhaps tighter than you expected. You’ve lifted rates today which might push
unemployment up a little. And your own forecasts don’t really have unemployment going above
4.5 per cent, 4.6 per cent I think is the top in 2028. But recently we’ve seen
a
lot of job losses in the tech sector being linked to AI. You see these forecasts for a horrendous
jobless
rate, 5, 10, 15 per cent. I think I saw PwC saying 30 per cent of jobs could be
automated by the mid-2020s. So those, you could call them doomsday forecasts or doom mongering forecasts
don’t seem to be incorporated into the Bank’s own forecasts at the moment. Can you just
comment
on that? Thanks.
Michele Bullock
So yeah, I see lots of those anecdotes as well and lots of those doomsayers as well.
But we’re not seeing it show up in the unemployment rate, the underemployment rate and we’re
not
seeing it show up in things like the forward-looking indicators like vacancies, job openings, layoffs,
those sorts of things. So notwithstanding we hear a lot of these anecdotes. I don’t know the answer
to that. But the only point I would make is that what you’re talking about in those circumstances,
if those doomsday scenarios come to bear, is we’re talking about a structural issue in the
employment market and that goes to what is the full employment that is consistent with low and stable
inflation and in those circumstances with structural issues in the employment market, we can’t
address those. That’s something that has to be addressed more by government policies and how to
retrain people. So that impacts what is the unemployment rate, if you like, that can be sustained with
low and stable inflation. But there’s nothing we can do about that.
Cecile Lefort
Governor Cecile Lefort from the Financial Review. Does today’s rate hike represent a
front-loading of tightening and does it reduce the chances of further tightening? And I realise forward
guidance, yes, markets are still pricing at least one rate hike for this year.
Michele Bullock
Yeah, look, it doesn’t say anything about the forward path at the moment. It was
felt for the reasons we set out that because of the excess demand that’s still in the economy, the
starting point that we’re in, we’ve now got an additional external inflation impulse which has
the potential … We can’t do anything about the inflation rate that’s going to
pop out in the next few quarters. If the current oil price is sustained, that will just be what will be.
But
what we might be able to do and what we’re hoping to do is bring the excess demand down so that as
that
washes through we’ll end up with less pressure on the second round effects. That’s what
we’re hoping. So that’s the reason for it. Now what does it mean? I don’t know. It’s
going to depend very much on what else happens because as we’ve already discussed, there could be
some really bad outcomes for the world economy if the current conflict gets worse. So those are the
sorts of things we’re going to have to consider. So I can’t give commitments one way or the
other. I
can’t say whether or not this has just ended up being a front loading or the first of many. But I
would just highlight that what we are trying to address here is a domestic demand problem. It’s a
domestic demand probably is the wrong way of putting it, domestic problem. It’s an issue to do with
excess demand in the Australian economy relative to the supply. That’s what we’re trying to
address.
Cameron Micallef
Hi Governor Cameron from Newswire. Consumer confidence data out today shows Australians
are feeling as bad as they did at the start of the COVID pandemic. I guess, how would that impact the
decisions you’re making moving forward?
Michele Bullock
Yes. So it all depends on how confidence flows through into what people actually do in
terms of spending. Confidence has been low for some time but the consumers have been continuing to
spend.
So there’s this issue about the relationship between consumer confidence in these surveys and what
people actually do. I think the consumer confidence numbers for some time have been reflecting basically
concerns about how much things cost. How are people reacting? Well, we know that people are reacting
often by looking for bargains. We hear this through our liaison that people are consuming but
they’re looking to spend in smart ways. They’re looking for sales and discounts and so on. So
yes, we look at consumer confidence but ultimately what matters is what people actually do and
that’s what matters for demand.
Brandon How
Thanks Governor Brandon How from Capital Brief. To follow on an earlier question, market
economists have been interpreting Deputy Governor Andrew Hauser’s podcast with The Conversation
last
week as a signal for what the Monetary Policy Board would decide today. Just wanted to confirm, do you
think they were wrong to think that this was signalling from the RBA? And do you think it was
potentially
a misstep from the RBA to have the Deputy Governor speak so close to a policy meeting?
Michele Bullock
Yeah. Thanks, Brandon. So, yes, a misinterpretation. I think if you read what he said,
you’ll see he was giving an argument on both sides. It would be entirely inappropriate, and
I’ve said this before and he would agree with this, for either of us to front run the Board because
you don’t know, the Board might disagree with you. So it wasn’t a signal that this was what
the
Board would decide, because we can’t say what the Board will decide until the Board sits and meets.
That podcast had been scheduled for some weeks. It wasn’t sort of hurriedly scheduled just before
the blackout and in the middle of the conflict. It wasn’t done like that. It was done weeks in
advance. Although I believe it wasn’t clear to the market economists that this thing had been
organised so far in advance. So maybe a learning for us is, make it clear a little bit more in advance
that this is coming up and it doesn’t come as such a surprise.
Juliette Saly
Governor, hi, Juliette Saly from AusBiz TV. In one way, energy prices are a tool against
inflation. They’re going to cause people to spend less, as other people have highlighted. With this
rate hike coming so soon on the back of the February one, is there a concern you may have made a policy
error or that your tool, which you continue to say you’ve only got one and it’s blunt, is
structurally broken?
Michele Bullock
Thanks, Juliette. I don’t think it’s structurally broken because as I said
earlier, it works through three channels, one of which is the cash flow. And the petrol price rise, that
is also effectively affecting people’s cash flow. So it’s going to impact demand in some way to
the extent that people have got constrained budgets and many people do. I know. So that is going to be
hard. Some people might have to have to make tough decisions on what they do with transport, but
basically it’s pretty inelastic. There’s not a lot of room to move I don’t think, on that.
So that is going to have a cash flow impact. But the interest rate does have those impacts through those
other channels. And I come back to the exchange rate channel again because it is very important. As it
rises, it makes imports cheaper, it puts downward pressure on inflation and that helps. If we don’t
raise interest rates, then we don’t get that impact because that works because of our interest
differential between us and the rest of the world. So I wouldn’t say it’s broken because it
works through these other channels. But I do understand the point you’re making and it’s hard
because not only have you got this completely exogenous shock to the amount of money you’re spending
on petrol, but now you have got, unfortunately, an interest rate increase on top of that. And I can tell
you the Board did not make this decision lightly.
Juliette Saly
I just want to follow up. Because it’s also making the asset-rich richer, in terms of
people that don’t have mortgages.
Michele Bullock
This is always the case that there are distributional changes and when interest rates
are
going down, I get lots of complaints from people who don’t want to earn less. And then when interest
rates are going up, I get the reverse. This is just a fact that interest rates do have distributional
consequences. But I come back again to the point that high inflation hurts absolutely everyone. And so
that is why we need to focus on that. If that gets out of hand, then that is bad for everyone and
particularly, I would say, for people who are on low and fixed incomes, and they typically don’t
have mortgages at all. They’re in the renter bucket. They’re the ones who are particularly
badly hit by inflation.
Sophia Rodrigues
Sophia Rodrigues from Central Bank Intel. A different take on the previous recession
question. Given persistent inflation risk, how long will you wait before declaring a shift in your
monetary policy strategy to just acknowledge that we need to create some spare capacity to get inflation
to target? Perhaps this language could help manage expectations.
Michele Bullock
So this is a really interesting debate, Sophia. Do you need to create a negative
output
gap in order to get inflation back down? We have in our outlook, we think if we can bring the positive
output gap, if you like, down to zero, then that will help to bring down the pressure and we will bring
inflation down with it, provided inflation expectations stay anchored. So we still think that strategy
can work, and that is still the strategy. I know that some people say you actually need to create a
negative output gap, so you need to have some sense in which you get spare capacity to get it down.
That’s sort of not our strategy. Our strategy continues to be to try and bring the output gap down
from the positive and with anchored inflation expectations, which will only stay anchored if people think
we will do what we need to do to get inflation down.
Swati Pandey
Governor Swati Pandey from Bloomberg News. RBA is one of eight major central banks which
is holding its rate decision this week. All other major central banks, BoE, Fed, they’re all expected
to leave interest rates unchanged, so RBA has been an outlier. Would you have hiked today if the Iran war
had not broken out?
Michele Bullock
I couldn’t answer that sort of hypothetical question about what we would have
done in the absence of the war. What I can say is that certainly it heightened our concerns about
inflation on
an ongoing sense. So as I said earlier, inflation is going to go up in the next few quarters if petrol
prices stay where they are, if oil prices stay where they are, that’s a given. We can’t do
anything about that. What we can watch for is the second round effects. It really is about the starting
point for us relative to others. We started in a position of excess demand. Other countries didn’t.
Having said that, if you look at what’s happened to interest rate expectations for those other
central banks, they’re on holds. They were cuts. So the whole curve for most countries, Japan’s
an exception, won’t go into it. But for most of those countries, they now have, Bank of England,
for
example, does not have a cut and I think might even have a small hike in there now. So the whole Middle
Eastern situation has resulted in obviously concerns about inflation and as a result a lift in
expectations for central bank interest rates.
Jacob Shteyman
Hi, Governor Jacob Shteyman from AAP. You mentioned earlier, households already doing it,
tough petrol prices going up. This is only going to make it harder. The temptation for governments would
be to put in place cost of living measures like cutting fuel excise or energy rebates. What impact would
these measures have on underlying inflation?
Michele Bullock
Thanks, Jacob. So you’ll recall that what we’ve been doing is in recent year
or
so, focusing on underlying inflation. Not because that’s our target, our target is headline
inflation. But headline inflation has been thrown around quite a lot by these, particularly the energy
subsidies. So they bring inflation down a long way and then as they come up, inflation pops up. So
it’s very volatile. So that’s the reason for focusing on underlying. But our target is
headline, and ultimately they will come back together. I don’t know what governments are going to
do, but if there are subsidies for certain things, then yes, that will have an impact on headline
inflation, depending on how big those sorts of subsidies are. On underlying inflation, it depends because
underlying inflation is about trimming out the sort of the edges, the very high ones that are increasing
by a lot and ones that aren’t increasing by much or decreasing, and then taking the middle sliver if
you like or the middle chunk. So if those subsidies, if they did do that, like they did with the petrol
subsidies, they tended to get trimmed out and that was the focus for underlying. So underlying can be
affected, but probably less so than headline.
Jonathan Shapiro
Governor Jonathan Shapiro from the Financial Review. The cash rate set, just one hike
away from being at its previous peak and the market is forecasting that it will go above. Just wonder if
you can give us some guidance as to the previous rate hiking cycle where interest rates got to. Given the
current set of mixes, when rates were previously at 4.1 per cent and 4.35 per cent,
whether it’s currency, household budgets, et cetera, for some guide about how much more tighter
monetary policy needs to get to achieve its objective.
Michele Bullock
Yeah, look, I. So let me go back to history. So the hiking cycle, the increase in
interest rates that occurred from sort of mid ‘22 up to ‘23, was very high and fast. But
remember it was coming from zero and we were very, very accommodative. So we had to first of all remove
all the accommodation and then we had to get into what might be restrictive territory. Now there
isn’t one sort of individual cash rate that necessarily represents restrictive or non-restrictive.
We do talk about neutral rates and we do watch those sorts of things, but they’re theoretical
concepts and they’re difficult to measure. The way we’ve been thinking about it more is in
terms of financial conditions and that’s more than just the cash rate. And one cash rate can be
associated with slightly tighter financial conditions or slightly weaker financial conditions. So for
example, we saw in terms of financial conditions, things tightening a little bit prior to this cash rate
rise. So financial conditions were tightening a bit. We were seeing expectations rise, bond yields were
rising. Short term, long term, things were … So in those circumstances, the cash rate didn’t
change, but financial conditions were moving. Having said that, if the cash rate doesn’t change,
ultimately financial conditions will probably settle back down to somewhere else. So, short answer, I
can’t give you a particular cash rate which is restrictive or non-restrictive. In terms of neutral,
we’re sort of in the middle of a range of estimates of neutral. Some are below, some are above. We
are focusing also, but not just on the cash rate, as I said, on financial conditions. And some of the
things there that we’re looking at are things like credit growth, we’re looking at what
households are doing in terms of non-required payments on their mortgages, those sorts of things which
are giving us a bit of a feel for how financial conditions are impacting the economy. So I’m sorry,
it’s not a simple answer but, you know, at the moment we are not certain how restrictive financial
conditions are. And part of that, as I said, is because inflation is high and unacceptably high. So
that’s maybe telling us something about financial conditions.
Hannah Kwon
Hi, Governor Hannah Kwon, SBS World News. Would it make your decision making easier if the
government was spending less?
Michele Bullock
It wouldn’t make … It’s a bit of an answer that I gave
earlier. It is what it
is. The government spending is what it is and our decision making is based on what’s happening with
inflation. So the fact that we’re in excess demand means that we need to bring that excess demand
down and we need to raise interest rates. So the combination of, you know, C plus I plus G, consumption,
investment, government spending, whatever that combination is, isn’t as important as what the total
is doing. And that’s what we’re trying to focus on. So I think it’s the same concept for
us. We take it all as given and we work with that.
David Taylor
Governor David Taylor, ABC News. Inflation is nowhere near the target. We’re at
3.8 according to your website. You know your target’s two and a half per cent. You’re
nowhere near it.
Michele Bullock
No.
David Taylor
Why didn’t you hike by 50 basis points today and get the job done?
Michele Bullock
Because, David, there’s lots of uncertainty around and we think that we can get
into restrictive territory and bring it down in a reasonable time. Critical to that, as I said earlier, is
anchored inflation expectations and we still have them anchored and that’s what’s helped us
bring inflation down from practically 8 per cent down to 3. And at one point, of course, it was
in the band and it was down near two and a half. It’s popped back up again. And so we do need to do
something to bring it back down, which we are doing. 50 is a lot. We’re trying to do this in a
way, as I said, the strategy being bring the excess demand down without giving up a lot of the gains in
the labour market, keeping a reasonably stable labour market. So that is still the strategy. And you
know, added to that, the uncertainty of what’s going on in the Middle East, I think is just another
reason to be a little bit cautious.
Luca Ittimani
Thanks Governor Luca Ittimani, from The Guardian. Thanks for giving us some perspective on
the strategy today. It sounds like the Bank believes it can fine tune demand down to a specific point
where industry won’t be able to pass on higher costs out of the conflict, limiting the second round
effects. So could you give us some benchmark or some kind of benchmarks to measure the success of that?
How much of a slowdown in consumer demand or private demand should we expect or is expected to be
necessary to achieve that?
Michele Bullock
Thanks, Luca. Well, the best guide to what we’re thinking would be our forecasts
from February and we’ll be revisiting those in May. We think we do need to see demand in total come
off and some of that will be consumer demand. So I’m not going to give you numbers because I’m
probably going to get the forecasts wrong. I haven’t got them tattooed in my head. But, but that is
the best benchmark I think, to go and look at in terms of what we think is required to bring inflation
back down. And I would highlight two things about those forecasts. The first is that it does incorporate
an interest rate rise in it. It’s an assumption. It’s based on the cash rate path. And the
second point is that inflation doesn’t get quite back down to the middle of the target band by the
end of the forecasts. Now, we all know that forecasts are uncertain and what those forecasts say for two
years hence is probably not going to turn out to be right. But it’s the best benchmark. It’s
the best benchmark we’ve got.
Michael Janda
Governor Michael Janda from ABC News. The most recent private sector measures show
household spending now falling and consumer confidence plunging to pandemic levels. Is there a risk
you’re fighting last year’s battles and might crunch an already weakening economy with this
rate rise?
Michele Bullock
Well, it’s possible, I suppose. It’s not our central forecast. And the
reason I say it’s not our central forecast, a few of the factors that we watch, inflation is in fact the
outcome of supply and demand. So remember, and we talked about this I think at the last press conference
with the forecasts, demand can’t grow very quickly if supply isn’t growing very quickly. So
the days of, you know, 2.5 per cent, 3 per cent growth rates of demand are very
difficult where you’ve got a supply constrained economy. So our central forecast is not for that to happen.
Our central forecast is that we will end up with inflation coming down and we will close the gap between
demand and supply. And there are some areas in the inflation numbers which demonstrate where you’re
seeing that supply-demand crunch. One is in market services where you continue to see elevated costs
there, elevated prices, elevated inflation. New housing has been another one that went through a period
where it was a bit lower, but it sprung back again, again demonstrating a demand-supply sort of
imbalance. So again, it’s not the central forecast and we hope we don’t have to do that. But
ultimately we’ve got to get inflation back down. That’s got to be the goal.
Michael Heath
Governor Michael Heath from Bloomberg. I just wanted to bring you back to the split
decision that came out and something you mentioned earlier about neither you or the Deputy Governor
wanting to front run the Board because I might disagree with you. There’s a bit of interest, I guess
in the composition of the Board and the new mechanism and there’s a perception, at least among some
people, that there’s an effort to put more doves on the Board to worry about employment a bit more
than inflation. So I guess my question is if the RBA was to, the staff were to recommend a hike, you and
the Deputy Governor and one or two other people support that view, but then you’re outvoted by the
Board. How is that interpreted? Is that a vote of no confidence in you as chair of the Board? Is that how
you would perceive it? Because I know previous governors have sort of had that view that they need to
then rethink how that would work or is that just the reality of the situation you’re in and you take
it with good grace?
Michele Bullock
The reality of our Board, as you have pointed out, it’s quite unusual in that
respect in that the Bank representatives, there’s two and there’s seven non-bank
representatives, that is very unusual. I’m not sure if there’s any other countries around the
world that have that, most have a majority representation by the Bank staff if you like. So that’s
just the way it is. And as I said earlier, particularly in circumstances like this where, you know,
it’s very difficult, it’s uncertain, there are two very good arguments to do two different
things, then reasonable people can differ and that’s a positive thing. The other point that the
Review made was it did feel that the Bank was a little too insular. And so if we are being challenged by
outside views, then I don’t take that personally. That is a positive thing. I don’t know if
that is going to happen. But you know, my own view is that this is the structure we’ve got,
we’ve got to work with it. And ultimately economics is, this is not a science. This is, you know,
this is difficult stuff and reasonable people can hold different views very reasonably. And I think the
meeting today, with its split decision and the process it went through, I thought was an excellent
demonstration of how that can be very positive. Thank you. Thank you.