TARGET: Richmond Fed Research Publications
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Research Publications | Richmond Fed
URL: https://www.richmondfed.org/publications/research
INDEX_URL: https://www.richmondfed.org/publications/research
ARTICLE_URL: https://www.richmondfed.org/publications/research
CANONICAL_URL: https://www.richmondfed.org/publications/research
PAGE_TITLE: Research Publications | Richmond Fed
H1: Economic Research
PUBLISHED_AT: 
PAGE_TYPE: search_page
EXPECTED_LANGUAGE: en
DETECTED_LANGUAGE: en
CONTENT_WORD_COUNT: 438
EXTRACTION_WARNINGS: container_page

Economic Research
Featured
Article
Are We There Yet? The Road Back to 2 Percent Inflation
Economic Brief
March 2026, No. 26-09
By
Paul Ho
An updated model suggests that inflation may stay at elevated levels in the near term.
Econ Focus
Econ Focus
is the economics magazine of the Richmond Fed. This publication covers economic issues affecting the Fifth Federal Reserve District and the nation.
Economic Brief
Based on staff economists’ research, this non-technical series of articles covers current economic issues and trends every month.
Working Papers
Papers written by Richmond Fed economists representing work prepared for later publication or presentation to professional meetings.
Regional Matters
Regional Matters
examines local, regional and national data that matter to the Fifth District economy and our communities.
Macro Minute
Our
Macro Minute
blog explores the numbers behind the headlines on the national economy.
Speaking of the Economy
Learn about the issues that the Richmond Fed is exploring in this podcast. Hear from economists and other experts from our Bank and beyond.
Marvin Goodfriend: Economist and Central Banker
Publication
Honoring Marvin Goodfriend
Essays related to Marvin and his work:
Personal Reflections
Perspectives on Policy and Research Contributions
Full collection in PDF format
Marvin's research and policy papers:
Collected Research and Policy Papers
Archive of Richmond Fed Publications
Marvin Goodfriend's legacy:
Podcast with Bob King and Alex Wolman
Goodfriend Conference and Memorial Lecture as part of CORE Week
Podcast
The Legacy of Marvin Goodfriend
Alex Wolman and Robert King reflect on the life and legacy of Marvin Goodfriend. Throughout his career, Goodfriend wrote a number of influential papers on monetary policy and played a key role in the development of the Richmond Fed's Research Department.
Marvin Goodfriend Author Page
Explore a collection of Goodfriend's research here. Goodfriend (1950-2019) was a senior vice president and policy advisor in the Research Department from 1993-2005 and director of research from 1993-1999.
Conference Publications
Arrow icon
Networks, Innovation and Productivity
May 2023
Secular Trends in Macroeconomics and Firm Dynamics
December 2022
Race and Economic Outcomes
November 2022
Applied Macro-Econometrics
September 2022
Data & Analysis
Arrow icon
The CFO Survey
Duke University and the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Atlanta conduct this quarterly survey to gather insights from financial decision makers on their outlook.
Manufacturing Survey
This monthly survey is sent to contacts whose firm type, firm size and location collectively match the profile of overall manufacturing in the Fifth District.
Non-Manufacturing Survey
This monthly survey is sent to retail, wholesale, and services firms that are selected for participation according to their type of business, location, and firm size.
Economic Research
Contact Icon
Contact Us
Tim Sablik