Young Economist Prize Applications for the 2026 Young Economist Prize closed on 2 March 2026. We are now assessing the papers received. Young economists will always have a vital role to play in shaping Europe’s future. Every year we recognise this through the Young Economist Prize, a research competition that offers talented students the chance to share their fresh perspectives on today’s challenges. Finalists are invited to the annual ECB Forum on Central Banking, and the overall winner is awarded €10,000 . Young Economist Prize 2026 What are the topics for 2026 paper submissions? The theme of the 2026 ECB Forum on Central Banking is “shaping Europe’s future: innovation, growth and stability”. PhD students are invited to submit papers on this theme, with a focus on one or more of the following topics: tokenisation of financial assets and means of payment prudential cycles of deregulation and reregulation, and their implications for financial stability and growth accelerating growth in the EU, and the role of innovation versus diffusion implications of migration for productivity and growth artificial intelligence and its implications for financial stability Europe’s role in the new global trade landscape We will also consider papers on other topics relevant to euro area central banking (including monetary policy, the deepening of Economic and Monetary Union, the functioning of the euro area economy and financial system, financial stability, and banking regulation and supervision). How do we select the finalists? Papers submitted by cob on 2 March 2026 are assessed based on three selection criteria: innovative thinking and scientific merit relevance for ECB/euro area policies pertinence to the Forum theme and aforementioned topics We also take into account the information provided in the candidate’s CV and recommendation letter. What will finalists do at the Forum? Finalists attend the ECB Forum on Central Banking in Sintra, Portugal from 29 June to 1 July 2026 . Their research papers are published on the ECB’s website and shared with all Forum participants, including policymakers, top academics and market economists from around the world. During the Forum, finalists attend a varied programme of panel discussions and expert talks. They also have the opportunity to give an elevator pitch on stage to the members of the ECB Executive Board. Their papers are assessed by a jury of top academics and senior ECB staff, taking into account votes to be cast by Forum participants. Please see the prize rules and privacy statement for further details. Meet Alena Wabitsch, winner of the 2025 Young Economist Prize! Alena Wabitsch University of Oxford The Messenger Matters Poster “Does it matter who communicates policies to the public? Yes! The messenger impacts the reach and influence of policy communication. I show this based on big data from X, an experiment and a model. Selecting the right messenger maximises welfare, making it a powerful policy tool.” SEE ALSO Find out more about related content ECB Forum on Central Banking The ECB Forum on Central Banking is an annual event organised by the European Central Bank and is held in Sintra, Portugal. Find out more All pages in this section