TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Terrorism and Illicit Finance
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/terrorism-and-illicit-finance
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

The Treasury Department performs a critical and far-reaching role in enhancing national security by implementing economic sanctions against foreign threats to the U.S., identifying and targeting the financial support networks of national security threats, and improving the safeguards of our financial systems. The Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence marshals the department's intelligence and enforcement functions with the twin aims of safeguarding the financial system against illicit use and combating rogue nations, terrorist facilitators, weapons of mass destruction (WMD) proliferators, money launderers, drug kingpins, and other national security threats. 311 Actions Actions taken under Section 311 of the USA PATRIOT Act. Asset Forfeiture Effective law enforcement actions against criminal enterprises, from drug cartels to terrorist organizations, require depriving them of their enabling assets and profits that support or stem from their existence. The Treasury Forfeiture Fund (TFF) is derived from the forfeited assets of criminal enterprises. Financial Action Task Force The Financial Action Task Force is an international policy-making and standard-setting body dedicated to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Financial Sanctions Specially Designated Nationals (SDN) list, counter terrorism and counter narcotics sanctions, other sanction programs, country information, and recent actions of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Money Laundering How Treasury combats money laundering at home and abroad. Terrorist Finance Tracking Program The Treasury Department initiated the Terrorist Finance Tracking Program to identify, track, and pursue terrorists and their networks. Since that time, the TFTP has provided valuable leads that have aided in the prevention or investigation of many of the most visible and violent terrorist attacks and attempted attacks of the past decade.