TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Convergence Report
URL: https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/other-publications/convergence/html/index.en.html
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Convergence Report The Convergence Report assesses the progress made by non-euro area EU Member States except Denmark, which has an opt-out, towards fulfilling the criteria necessary to adopt the euro . It is published at least once every two years, or at the request of an EU Member State which would like to join the euro area. June 2025 Our latest report at a glance Economic convergence Bulgaria has made good progress towards economic convergence with the euro area since the previous report in 2024. Read about the state of economic convergence Legal convergence Bulgarian law is compatible with the Treaties and the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, as required under Article 131 of the Treaty. Explore the compatibility of national legislation Summary Overall, Bulgaria is within the reference values of the convergence criteria and complies with the legal requirements. Read the country summary June 2025 Convergence Report Read in detail the ECB’s latest assessment of Bulgaria’s economic and legal convergence with the euro area. See the full report For the media Bulgaria has made good progress towards economic convergence with the euro area since the previous report in 2024. Read the press release Analyse the results Download the latest Convergence Report in PDF format Convergence in figures WANT TO LEARN MORE? CHECK OUT OUR PREVIOUS RELEASES 4 June 2025 Convergence Report, June 2025 26 June 2024 Convergence Report, June 2024 1 June 2022 Convergence Report, June 2022 10 June 2020 Convergence Report 23 May 2018 Convergence Report SHOW ALL RELEASES EU Commission reports Like the ECB, the European Commission also publishes convergence reports assessing the readiness of EU member states to adopt the euro. See the Commission reports Joining the euro area All EU Member States, except Denmark, are required to adopt the euro. To do so, they must first meet the convergence criteria that assess their readiness for economic and monetary union. Take a look at our interactive map to find out when different countries adopted the euro. Take a look at the map For our ECB Podcast listeners How does a country join the euro area? We discussed this in one of our podcast episodes, looking specifically at Croatia. Listen to the podcast Croatia adopts the euro On 1 January 2023 Croatia adopted the euro and became the 20th member of the euro area. Find out more by reading the Economic Bulletin article Has the euro changeover really caused extra inflation in Croatia? Croatian consumers have expressed concerns about price increases related to the euro changeover. Preliminary evidence presented in an ECB blog post shows that the changeover from kuna to euro has so far had relatively little impact on Croatian consumer prices and price perceptions. Read the blog post Not an expert? Check out our explainer Learn more Spotlight on joining the euro area All pages in this section