TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Exchange rates
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/rates/exchange
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Exchange rates Find exchange rates, along with supporting data and background information. All Bank of Canada exchange rates are indicative rates only, obtained from averages of aggregated price quotes from financial institutions. For details, please read our full Terms and Conditions . Daily exchange rates View the daily average exchange rates. Published once each business day by 16:30 ET. Monthly exchange rates View the monthly average exchange rates. Typically published on the last business day of the month by 16:30 ET. Annual exchange rates View the annual average exchange rates. Published on the last business day of the year by 12:30 ET. Daily exchange rates: Lookup tool Search and download exchange rate data. Canadian Effective Exchange Rates The CEER index is a weighted average of bilateral exchange rates for the Canadian dollar against the currencies of Canada’s major trading partners. Foreign exchange intervention Updated if and when the Bank intervenes in foreign exchange markets. Our Valet API is designed to help you integrate your applications and processes with our data. For details, please see our documentation . Tools Currency Converter Convert from Canadian dollars based on daily exchange rates. RSS feeds Subscribe to our feeds to get the latest exchange rate data. Historical rates Historical noon and closing rates Download our legacy noon and closing rates data. These rates were last updated 28 April 2017 using the Bank’s old calculation methodology, and will not be updated in future. Historical Canadian-Dollar Effective Exchange Rate index Download our historical CERI data. These rates were last updated in January 2018, and will not be updated in future. The Canadian-Dollar Effective Exchange Rate index (CERI) was replaced by the Canadian Effective Exchange Rate index (CEER) as of January 2018. About exchange rates Understanding exchange rates The foreign exchange market determines how much the Canadian dollar is worth. At the Bank of Canada, we very rarely intervene to support its value. Background information on foreign exchange rates Learn about the publication of, and calculation methodology for, the foreign exchange (FX) rate data on the Bank of Canada’s website.