TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Financial market infrastructure supervision
URL: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/financial-stability/financial-market-infrastructure-supervision
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Financial market infrastructure supervision The Bank of England is responsible for supervising certain financial market infrastructures in the UK. FMIs are a vital part of the economy. In this section Who are we? Our objectives; who we supervise and work with; our Governance and Accountability What do we do? How do we supervise FMIs, Regulatory fees, Crisis information, Stress Testing, Clearing Obligation and Settlement Finality, Rulemaking and CHAPS FMI rulebook FMI rules and policies, requirements for FMIs, Enforcement powers, Requirements powers, Permissions powers and Stablecoin policy Transitional regimes Transitional Regimes for incoming CCPs and CSDs, Temporary SFD regimes, Qualifying central counterparties transitionals Authorisations Apply to become an approved UK or incoming FMI and for Settlement finality designation Notifications / reporting Selling and buying CCP shares, new products within the TRR, Securities Internalised Settlement reporting, whistleblowing and confidential reporting, Waivers and modifications of rules What are FMIs? Financial market infrastructures (FMIs) allow the clearing, settlement, and recording of financial transactions. They enable millions of transactions to take place each day. Find out more in our short guide . We supervise certain types of FMIs. These are: payment systems recognised by HM Treasury central securities depositories central counterparties (CCPs) Glossary Why we supervise FMIs Our role is to protect and enhance financial stability in the UK. We supervise FMIs because they are a vital part of the UK’s financial system and its wider economy. For example, payment systems are entities that allow funds to be transferred between, for example, businesses and individuals, and from business-to-business and individual-to-individual. They are used for many day to day transactions. CSDs keep ownership records of individual securities and facilitate the secure transfer of these securities between people or entities. CCPs sit between buyers and sellers of financial contracts so that both parties hold a contract with the CCP rather than with each other. This ensures that the obligations of a trade can be fulfilled if one party fails so reducing counterparty credit risk FMI news and publications Publication // Supervisory statement 18 March 2026 Operational resilience: operational incident... Operational resilience: operational incident reporting for FMIs Publication // Policy statement 18 March 2026 Operational resilience: operational incident... Operational resilience: operational incident and outsourcing and third-party reporting for FMIs Publication // Consultation paper 04 March 2026 The Bank of England’s approach to using its... The Bank of England’s approach to using its requirements and permissions powers to facilitate mobilisation... Publication // Policy statement 19 February 2026 The Bank of England’s fees regime for financial... The Bank of England’s fees regime for financial market infrastructure supervision 2025/26 View more FMI news and publications Back to top This page was last updated 28 July 2025