TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: The AI Public-Private Forum: Final report
URL: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/research/fintech/ai-public-private-forum
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

The AI Public-Private Forum: Final report The Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority launched the Artificial Intelligence Public-Private Forum (AIPPF) on 12 October 2020. Published on 17 February 2022 Overview The Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority launched the Artificial Intelligence Public-Private Forum (AIPPF) on 12 October 2020. The purpose was to further dialogue on AI innovation between the public and private sectors. More specifically, the AIPPF sought to: Share information and understand the practical challenges of using AI within financial services, as well as the barriers to deployment and potential risks. Gather views on potential areas where principles, guidance or good practice examples could be useful in supporting safe adoption of these technologies. Consider whether ongoing industry input could be useful and what form this could take. This video requires third-party analytical cookies to play. Read our cookie policy for more information. Accept cookies and load the video Artificial intelligence public-private forum The AIPPF ran for one year, with four quarterly meetings and a number of workshops. It brought together a diverse group of experts from across financial services, the tech sector and academia, along with public sector observers from other UK regulators and government. The members acted in a personal capacity and all outputs of the AIPPF reflect their views as individual experts, rather than their institutions. The outputs do not reflect the views of the Bank or the FCA. Previous work has shown that risks can arise at three levels within AI systems: Data, Model Risk and Governance. Issues at the data stage can get baked in as model inputs; but even with the best data, issues can arise in the modelling stage; while complex AI systems create their own governance challenges. The AIPPF meetings and the final report have been structured around these three key topics. This report explores the various barriers to adoption, challenges and risks in each of these three areas. In order to further the debate, it also explores potential ways to address such barriers and challenges, as well as mitigate potential risks. These are highlighted in the key findings and examples of best practice. Ultimately, this report aims to advance the collective understanding and promote further discussions amongst academics, practitioners and regulators to support the safe adoption of AI in financial services. The AI Public-Private Forum: Final report More information Previous documents relating to the AIPPF can be found below: Launch video Opening remarks by Dave Ramsden Minutes from the meetings List of participants (PDF) Terms of Reference (PDF) If you have any questions, please contact: AIPPF@bankofengland.co.uk Convert this page to PDF Other publications Publication // Working Paper 20 March 2026 Interest-rate fee substitution: credit facilitation... Interest-rate fee substitution: credit facilitation in segmented markets Publication // Working Paper 20 March 2026 Targeting inflation expectations? Targeting inflation expectations? Publication // Market Participants Survey 20 March 2026 Market Participants Survey results - March... Market Participants Survey results - March 2026 Publication // Weekly report 19 March 2026 Bank of England Weekly Report 18 March 2026 Bank of England Weekly Report 18 March 2026 View more Other publications Back to top