TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Macroprudential Bulletin
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Macroprudential Bulletin Our Macroprudential Bulletin provides insight into the work we’re currently doing in the field of macroprudential policy. Our goal is to raise awareness of macroprudential policy issues in the euro area by making our ongoing work and thinking in this field more transparent, and to encourage broader discussion on these key issues. We aren’t trying to be transparent about our work just for the sake of it. This is also an opportunity to invite you to share your views with us by sending your feedback to ecb.macroprudential.bulletin@ecb.europa.eu . You can also send us an email if you want to be notified about future issues of the Macroprudential Bulletin. November 2025 Issue 32 Beyond the single bank: macroprudential insights from EU-wide stress tests Macroprudential extensions of bottom-up stress tests provide deeper insights into systemic vulnerabilities. Our latest bulletin explores how to build on results of the 2025 EU-wide stress test to assess additional risks, inform policy considerations and gauge scenario severity. Learn about these stress test extensions Articles Simulating bank reactions and macroprudential policy with the 2025 EU-wide stress test In this article the constant balance sheet assumption of the 2025 EU-wide stress test is relaxed to explore the impact of banks’ deleveraging and capital buffer releases on their balance sheets and on the real economy by using top-down stress test tools. Read more about bank deleveraging impact Integrating contagion into the 2025 EU-wide stress test The article expands on the 2025 EU-wide stress test by incorporating a system-wide perspective to capture contagion risks across investment funds, insurance corporations and banks under the EBA’s adverse scenario. Read more about system-wide contagion Integrating climate risks into the 2025 EU-wide stress test This article looks at banks’ resilience to short-term climate risks, combining the European Banking Authority adverse scenario with Network for Greening the Financial System scenarios. The 2025 EU-wide stress test is extended by integrating both transition and acute physical risks into credit risk analysis for non-financial corporations. Explore the short-term impact of climate risk A framework to assess the severity of EU-wide stress test adverse scenarios Assessing the severity of stress test scenarios is key in interpreting results and ensuring the credibility of stress testing exercises. This article introduces a comprehensive framework for assessing scenario severity in the context of EU-wide stress test adverse scenarios. Read more about scenario severity indicators In focus Informing the target positive neutral CCyB using stress test data This Focus Piece introduces a novel approach for deriving a target “positive neutral” countercyclical capital buffer rate which links bank capital losses to macroeconomic variables using stress test data. Read more about this approach WANT TO LEARN MORE? CHECK OUT OUR PREVIOUS RELEASES 19 November 2025 Informing the positive neutral countercyclical capital buffer using stress test data 19 November 2025 A framework to assess the severity of adverse scenarios in EU-wide stress tests 19 November 2025 Integrating climate risk into the 2025 EU-wide stress test: the effects of climate risks for firms 19 November 2025 Integrating contagion risk into the 2025 EU-wide stress test: a system-wide analysis with amplification effects between banks and non-banks 19 November 2025 Simulating dynamic balance sheet reactions and macroprudential policy using the 2025 EU-wide stress test 19 November 2025 Beyond the single bank: macroprudential insights from the 2025 EU-wide stress test and its extensions 18 August 2025 Macroprudential and monetary policy interaction: the role of early activation of the countercyclical capital buffer 5 August 2025 Heterogeneity in buffers set for systemically important banks in the European banking union 5 August 2025 Enhancing the ECB’s O-SII framework 25 June 2025 A decade of borrower-based measures in the banking union SHOW ALL RELEASES All pages in this section