TARGET: BEA News
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Economic Accounts by Type | U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
URL: https://www.bea.gov/data/economic-accounts

Economic Accounts by Type | U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Toggle navigation
Main navigation
Data
by Topic
by Place
by Economic Account
Tools
Interactive Data
Application Programming Interface (API)
Country Facts
BEARFACTS
Industry Facts
Trade in Value Added (TiVA) Table Builder
GDP & Personal Income Mapping
RIMS II
eFile
News
Economy at a Glance
News Releases
Release Schedule
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
Survey of Current Business
Archive
For Journalists
Research
Offices of Research
Meet the Researchers
Papers
Special Sworn Researcher Program
Research Using Company-Level Data
Fellowship Program
Resources
Learning Center
Methodologies
Multimedia
Article Collections
For Congressional Users
For Developers
For Students
About
Who We Are
BEA Leadership
Innovation at BEA
Advisory Committees
Budget and Performance
Policies and Information
Working at BEA
Help
Contact Us
Ask an Expert
For Survey Respondents
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Glossary
Guidelines for Citing BEA
Home
BEA Data
Economic Accounts by Type
BEA's data products can be sorted and viewed by topic, by geographic characteristic, or by economic account.
Select one of these groupings below to begin exploring BEA's data.
Browse
National
BEA’s national economic statistics provide a comprehensive view of U.S. production, consumption, investment, exports and imports, and income and saving. These statistics are best known by summary measures such as gross domestic product (GDP), corporate profits, personal income and spending, and personal saving.
Browse
International
The international transactions accounts provide information on trade in goods and services (including the balance of payments and the balance of trade), investment income, and government and private financial flows. In addition, the accounts measure the value of U.S. international assets and liabilities and direct investment by multinational enterprises. BEA’s data on direct investment, the most detailed data set on the activities of multinational enterprises (MNEs) available, are used to assess the role these business enterprises play in the global economy.
Browse
Regional
The regional economic accounts tell us about the geographic distribution of U.S. economic activity and growth. The estimates of gross domestic product and personal income by state and local areas, and the accompanying detail, provide a consistent framework for analyzing and comparing individual state and local area economies.
Browse
Industry
The industry economic accounts, presented both in an input-output framework and as annual output by each industry, provide a detailed view of the interrelationships between U.S. producers and users and the contribution to production across industries. These accounts are used extensively by policymakers and businesses to understand industry interactions, productivity trends, and the changing structure of the U.S. economy.
Information Guide: BEA Economic Accounts
Download Acrobat Reader
Page last modified on 12/5/22
Bureau of Economic Analysis
4600 Silver Hill Road • Suitland, MD 20746
Contact Us
Working at BEA
Frequently Asked Questions
Our Policies
Privacy
Commitment to Scientific Integrity
Data Dissemination Practices
Open Data
USA.gov
Business USA
No FEAR Act
FOIA
U.S. Department of Commerce
Emergency Status
The BEA Wire | BEA's Official Blog
News Release Feed (RSS)
Sign up for Email Notifications