TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: [PDF] Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual, February 2026
URL: https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/bhc-2130-2260.pdf
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts Section 2130.0 2130.0.1 INTRODUCTION Effective March 1, 1983, the Board issued an amended bank holding company policy state- ment entitled ‘‘Futures, Forward and Options on U.S. Government and Agency Securities and Money Market Instruments.’’ Bank holding companies are now required to furnish written notiﬁcation to their District Federal Reserve Banks within 10 days after ﬁnancial contract activities are begun by the parent or a nonbank subsidiary. The policy is consistent with the joint policy statement previously issued by the three federal bank regulators with regard to banks participating in ﬁnancial contracts, and reﬂects the Board’s judgment that bank holding companies, as sources of strength for their sub- sidiary banks, should not take speculative posi- tions in such activities. If a bank holding company or nonbank sub- sidiary is taking or intends to take positions in ﬁnancial contracts, that company’s board of directors should approve written policies and establish appropriate limitations to ensure that the activity is conducted in a safe and sound manner. Also, appropriate internal control and audit procedures should be in place to monitor the activity. The following discussion and inspection procedures apply to futures contract activity generally, but are intended to focus spe- ciﬁcally on ﬁnancial futures contracts. For a discussion of currency futures and options and the examination procedures for those instru- ments, see sections F and G in the Merchant and Investment Bank Examination Manual. Information, instructions, and inspection pro- cedures have been provided for verifying com- pliance with the Board’s policy statement. It is intended that the policy statement will ensure that contract activities are conducted in accor- dance with safe and sound banking practices. The task of evaluating BHC contract activities is the responsibility of System examiners. The following information and inspection proce- dures are intended to serve as a guide for Fed- eral Reserve Bank staff in that effort. 2130.0.2 DEFINITIONS Basis—Basis is deﬁned as the difference between the futures contract price and the cash market price of the same underlying security, money market instrument, or commodity. Call Option—A contract that gives the buyer (holder) the right, but not the obligation to buy (call), a speciﬁed quantity of an underlying security, money market instrument or commod- ity at or before the stated expiration of the contract. At expiration, if the value of the option increases, the holder will exercise the option or close it at a proﬁt. If the value of the option does not increase, the holder would probably let the option expire (or close it out at a proﬁt) and, consequently, will lose the cost (premium paid) of (for) the option. Alternatively, the option may be sold prior to expiration. Clearing Corporation —A corporation orga- nized to function as the clearing house for an exchange. The clearing house registers, moni- tors, matches and guarantees trades on a futures market, and carries out ﬁnancial settlement of futures transactions. The clearing house acts as the central counterparty to all trades executed on the exchange. It substitutes as a seller to all buyers and as a buyer to all sellers. In addition, the clearing corporation serves to insure that all contracts will be honored in the event of a counterparty default. Clearing Member —A member ﬁrm of the clearing house or corporation. Membership in clearing associations or corporations is restricted to members of the respective commodity exchanges, but not all exchange members are clearing house members. All trades of a non- clearing member must be registered with, and eventually settled through, a clearing member. Commodities Futures Trading Commission — The CFTC is a federal regulatory agency charged with regulation of futures trading in all commodities. It has broad regulatory authority over futures trading. It must approve all future contracts traded on U.S. commodity exchanges, ensure that the exchanges enforce their own rules (which it must review and approve), and direct an exchange to take any action needed to maintain orderly markets whenever it believes that an ‘‘emergency’’ exists. Contract Activities—This term is used in this manual to refer to banking organization partici- pation in the futures, forward, standby contract, or options markets to purchase and sell U.S. government and agency securities or money market instruments, foreign currencies and other ﬁnancial instruments. Convergence—The process by which the futures market price and the cash market price BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 of a ﬁnancial instrument or commodity con- verge as the futures contract approaches expira- tion. Covered Call Options —This term refers to the issuance or sale of a call option where the option seller owns the underlying deliverable security or ﬁnancial instrument. Cross Hedging —The process of hedging a ‘‘cash’’ or derivative instrument position with another cash or derivative instrument that has signiﬁcantly different characteristics. For exam- ple, an investor who wants to hedge the sales price of long-term corporate bonds might hedge by establishing a short position in a treasury bond or treasury bond futures contract, but since the corporate bonds cannot be delivered to sat- isfy the contract, the hedge would be a cross hedge. To be successful, the price movements of the hedged instrument must be highly correlated to that of the position being hedged. Difference Check—A difference check is sent by the party which recognizes a loss when a forward contract is closed out by the execution of an offsetting forward contract pursuant to a pair-off clause. In essence, the difference check represents a net cash settlement on offsetting transactions between the same two parties and replaces a physical delivery and redelivery of the underlying securities pursuant to offsetting contracts. Financial Contract—This term is used in the manual to refer to ﬁnancial futures, forward, standby contracts, and options to purchase and sell U.S. government and agency securities, money market instruments, foreign currency futures and other ﬁnancial instruments. Firm Forward Contract —This term is used to describe a forward contract under which delivery of a security is mandatory. See ‘‘Standby Contract’’ for a discussion of optional delivery forward contracts. Forward Contracts —Over-the-counter con- tracts for forward placement or delayed delivery of securities in which one party agrees to pur- chase and another to sell a speciﬁed security at a speciﬁed price for future delivery. Contracts specifying settlement in excess of 30 days fol- lowing trade date shall be deemed to be forward contracts. Forward contracts are usually non- standardized and are not traded on organized exchanges, generally have no required margin payments, and can only be terminated by agree- ment of both parties to the transaction. The term also applies to derivative contracts such as swaps, caps, and collars. Futures Contracts —Standardized contracts traded on organized commodity exchanges to purchase or sell a speciﬁed ﬁnancial instrument or commodity on a future date at a speciﬁed price. While futures contracts traditionally speciﬁed a deliverable instrument, newer con- tracts have been developed that are based on various indexes. Futures contracts based on indexes settle in cash and never result in deliv- ery of an underlying instrument; some tradi- tional contracts that formerly speciﬁed delivery of an underlying instrument have been rede- signed to specify cash settlement. New ﬁnancial futures contracts are continually being proposed and adopted for trading on various exchanges. Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) —An FCM functions like a broker in securities. An FCM must register with the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in order to be eligible to solicit or accept orders to buy or sell futures contracts. The services provided by an FCM include a communications system for transmittal of orders, and may include research services, trading strategy suggestions, trade execution, and recordkeeping services. Financial Futures Contracts —Standardized contracts traded on organized exchanges to pur- chase or sell a speciﬁed security, money market instrument, or foreign currency on a future date at a speciﬁed price on a speciﬁed date. Futures contracts on GNMA mortgage-backed securities and Treasury bills were the ﬁrst interest rate futures contracts. Other ﬁnancial futures con- tracts have been developed, including contracts on Eurodollars, currencies, and Euro-Rate dif- ferentials. It is anticipated that new and similar ﬁnancial futures contracts will continue to be proposed and adopted for trading on various exchanges. Futures Exchange —Under the Commodities Exchange Act (CEA), a ‘‘board of trade’’ desig- nated by the Commodity Futures Trading Com- mission as a contract market. Trading occurs on the ﬂoor of the exchange and is conducted by open auction in designated trading areas. GNMA or GINNIE MAE —Either term is used to refer to the Government National Mortgage Association. Ginnie Mae is a government corpo- ration within the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. In creating GNMA, Congress authorized it to grant a full faith and credit guaranty of the U.S. government to mortgage-backed securities issued by private sector organizations. Hedge—The process of entering transactions that will protect against loss through compensa- Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 2 tory price movement. A hedge transaction is one which reduces the organization’s overall level of risk. Initial Futures Margin —In the futures mar- ket, a deposit held by an FCM on behalf of a client against which daily gains and losses on futures positions are added or subtracted. A futures margin represents a good-faith deposit or performance bond to guarantee a partici- pant’s performance of contractual obligations. Interest Rate Cap —A multi-period interest rate option for which the buyer pays the seller a fee to receive, at predetermined future times, the excess, if any, of a speciﬁed ﬂoating interest rate index above a speciﬁed ﬁxed per annum rate (cap or strike rate). Caps can be sold separately or may be packaged with an interest rate swap. Interest Rate Collar —the combination, in single contract, of a simultaneous sale of a cap and the purchase of a ﬂoor, or, a purchase of a cap and sale of a ﬂoor. The buyer of the collar is a buyer of a cap and the seller of a ﬂoor. By selling the ﬂoor, the collar buyer gives up the possibility of beneﬁting from a decline in inter- est rates below the strike rate in the ﬂoor compo- nent. On the other hand, the fee earned in selling the ﬂoor lowers the cost of protection against interest rate reversal. Interest Rate Floor —is the reverse of an interest rate cap. The buyer pays a premium to obtain protection against a decline in interest rates below a speciﬁed level. Long Contract —A ﬁnancial contract to buy securities or money market instruments at a speciﬁed price on a speciﬁc future date. Long Hedge—The long hedge, also called the anticipatory hedge is the process by which a market participant protects a cash or risk posi- tion by buying a futures or forward contract, i.e. taking a long ﬁnancial contract position. Maintenance Margin —Maintenance margin is the minimum level to which an equity posi- tion can decline as a result of a price decline before additional margin is required. In other words, it is the minimum margin which a cus- tomer must keep on deposit with a member at all times. Each futures contract has speciﬁed maintenance margin levels. A margin call is issued when a customer’s initial margin balance falls below the maintenance margin level speci- ﬁed by the exchange. Maintenance margin must be satisﬁed by the deposit of cash or agreed upon cash equivalents. The amount of cash required is that amount which is sufﬁcient to restore the account balance to the initial margin level. Mandatory Delivery —See ‘‘Firm Forward Contract.’’ Mark-to-market—The process by which the carrying value (market value or fair value) of a ﬁnancial instrument is revalued, and which is recognized as the generally accepted accounting principle for determining proﬁt or loss on secu- rities positions in proprietary trading and invest- ment accounts. Futures positions are typically marked-to-market at the end of each trading session. Naked Call Option—Refers to the issuance or sale of a call option where the option seller does not own the underlying deliverable security or instrument. Open Interest —Refers to the number of futures contracts outstanding for a given deliv- ery month in an individual futures contracts. The mechanics of futures trading require that for every open long futures contract there is an open short futures contract. For example, an open interest of 10,000 futures contracts means that there are 10,000 long contract holders and 10,000 short contract holders. Options Contracts —Option contracts require that the buyer of the option pay the seller (or writer) of the option a premium for the right, but not the obligation, to exercise an option to buy (call option) or sell (put option) the instrument underlying the option at a stated price (strike or exercise price) on a stated date (European style option) or at any time before or on the stated expiration date (American style option). There are also exchange traded options contracts: (1) put and call options on futures contracts that are traded on commodities exchanges; and (2) put and call options that specify delivery of securities or money market instruments (or that are cash settled) that are traded on securities exchanges. The key economic distinction between options on futures and options on secu- rities, is that the party who exercises an option on a futures contract receives a long or short futures position rather than accepting or making delivery of the underlying security or ﬁnancial instrument. Pair-Off Clause —A pair-off clause speciﬁes that if the same two parties to a forward contract trade should subsequently execute an offsetting trade (e.g. a long contract against an outstanding short contract), settlement can be effected by one party sending the other party a difference check rather than having physical delivery and redelivery of securities. Par Cap —This term refers to a provision in the contract of sale for Ginnie Mae mortgage- backed securities which restricts delivery only Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 to pools which bear an interest rate sufﬁciently high so that the securities would trade at or below par when computed based on the agreed to yield. Put Option —An option contract which gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell (put) a speciﬁed quantity of a ﬁnancial instrument (money market) or commodity at a speciﬁed price on or before the stated expiration date of the contract. If price of the underlying instrument occurs, the purchaser will exercise or sell the option. If a decline in price of the underlying instrument does not occur, the option purchaser will let it expire and will lose only the cost (premium paid) of (for) the option. Round Turn —Commissions for executing futures transactions are charged on a round turn basis. A round turn constitutes opening a futures position and closing it out with an offsetting contract, i.e. executing a short contract and clos- ing out the position with a long contract or vice-versa. Short Contract —A ﬁnancial contract to sell securities or money market instruments at a speciﬁed price on a speciﬁed future date. Short Hedge —The process by which a cus- tomer protects a cash or risk position by selling a futures or forward contract, i.e. taking a short ﬁnancial contract position. The purpose of the short hedge is to lock in a selling price. Standby Contract—Optional delivery forward contracts on U.S. government and agency secu- rities arranged between securities dealers and customers that do not involve trading on orga- nized exchanges. The buyer of a standby con- tract (put option) acquires, upon paying a fee, the right to sell securities to the other party at a stated price at a future time. The seller of a standby (the issuer) receives the fee, and must stand ready to buy the securities at the other party’s option. See the fuller discussion of Standby Contracts under 2130.0.3.1.2) TBA (To Be Announced) Trading —TBA is the abbreviation used in trading Ginnie Mae securities for forward delivery when the pool number of securities bought or sold is ‘‘to be announced’’ at a later date. V ariation Margin—is when, in very volatile markets, additional funds are required to be deposited to bring the account back to its initial margin level, while trading is in progress. Varia- tion margin requires that the needed funds be deposited within the hour, or when reasonably possible. If the customer does not satisfy the variation or maintenance margin call(s), the futures position is closed. Unlike initial margin, variation margin must be in cash. Also refer to ‘‘Maintenance Margin’’. Weighted Hedge —a hedge that is used to compensate for a greater decline in the dollar value of a cash bond as compared to a price decline of an accessible T-bond futures contract. Yield Maintenance Contract —This is a for- ward contract written with terms which main- tain the yield at a ﬁxed rate until the delivery date. Such a contract permits the holder of a short forward contract to deliver a different cou- pon security at a comparable yield. 2130.0.3 FINANCIAL CONTRACT TRANSACTIONS Futures, forward and options contracts are merely other tools for use in asset–liability man- agement. These contracts are neither inherently a panacea nor a speculative vehicle for use by banks and bank holding companies. Rather, the beneﬁt or harm resulting from engaging in ﬁnancial contract activities results from the manner in which contracts are used. Proper utili- zation of ﬁnancial contracts can reduce the risks of interest or exchange rate ﬂuctuations. On the other hand, ﬁnancial contracts can serve as leverage vehicles for speculation on rate movements. 2130.0.3.1 Markets and Contract Trading Forward contract (OTC) trading of Government National Mortgage Association (‘‘GNMA ’’) or ‘‘Ginnie Mae’’ Mortgage-Backed Securities pre- ceded exchange trading of GNMA futures con- tracts in 1975. 2130.0.3.1.1 Forward Contracts Forward contracts are executed solely in an over-the-counter market. The party executing a contract to acquire securities on a speciﬁed future date is deemed to have a ‘‘long’’ forward contract; and the party agreeing to deliver secu- rities on a future date is described as a party holding a ‘‘short’’ forward contract. Each con- tract is unique in that its terms are arrived at after negotiation between the parties. For purposes of illustrating a forward con- tract, assume that SMC Corporation is an origi- nator of government guaranteed mortgages and issuer of GNMA securities. SMC Corporation has a proven ability to manage and predict the Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 4 volume of its loan originations over a time horizon of three to four months. To assure a proﬁt or prevent a loss on current loan origina- tions, SMC Corporation may enter binding over- the-counter commitments to deliver 75% of its mortgage production which will be converted into GNMA securities three months in the future. If SMC agrees to sell $3 million of GNMA securities (11% coupon) to the WP Securities Firm at par in three months, SMC Corporation is considered to have entered a ‘‘short’’ (commitment to sell) forward contract. Conversely, WP has entered a ‘‘long’’ (commit- ment to buy) forward contract. The two parties to the transaction are both now obligated to honor the terms of the contract in three months, unless the contract is terminated by mutual agreement. It should be noted that executing a ‘‘short’’ forward contract is not the same as executing the short sale of a security. Generally, a short sale of a security is understood to represent the speculative sale of a security which is not owned by the seller. The short seller either purchases the security prior to settlement date or borrows the security to make delivery; however, a ‘‘short’’ forward contract merely connotes the side of the contract required to make delivery on a future date. Short forward contracts should not be considered inherently speculative, but must be considered in light of the facts surrounding the contract. Forward trading can be done on a mandatory delivery (sometimes referred to as ‘‘ﬁrm for- ward’’ contracts) basis or on an optional deliv- ery basis (‘‘standby’’ contract). With respect to a ‘‘mandatory’’ trade, the contract can also be written with a ‘‘pair-off’’ clause. A pair-off clause speciﬁes that if the same two parties to a trade should subsequently execute an off-setting trade (e.g., the banking organization executes a long contract against an outstanding short con- tract), settlement can be effected by one party sending the other party a ‘‘difference check’’ rather than having a physical delivery and rede- livery of securities. When a forward contract is executed by a dealer, a conﬁrmation letter or contract is sent to the other party to the transaction. The contract will disclose pertinent data about the trade, such as the size of the trade, coupon rate, the date upon which ﬁnal delivery instructions will be issued, and the yield at which the trade was effected. In addition, the contract letter will specify whether it is permissible for the ‘‘short’’ side of the trade to deliver a different coupon security at a comparable yield (‘‘yield mainte- nance contract’’) if the coupon speciﬁed in the contract is not available for delivery. Contracts which prohibit the delivery of securities requir- ing a premium over par are considered to have a ‘‘par cap.’’ The initial contract letter generally does not specify which speciﬁc securities (e.g., GNMA mortgage-backed securities identiﬁed by a pool number) will be delivered. Instead, such contracts generally identify the deliverable securities as having been traded on a ‘‘TBA ’’ basis (‘‘to be announced’’). Prior to settlement, the dealer holding the short contract will send a ﬁnal conﬁrmation to the other party specifying the actual securities to be delivered, accrued interest, dollar price, settlement date, coupon rate, and the method of payment. Forward contracts are not typically marked- to-market. Both parties in a forward contract are exposed to credit risk, since either party can default on its obligation. 2130.0.3.1.2 Standby Contracts Standby contracts are ‘‘put options’’ that trade over-the-counter, with initial and ﬁnal conﬁrma- tion procedures that are quite similar to those on forward transactions. Standby contracts were developed to allow GNMA issuers to hedge their production of securities, especially in instances where mortgage bankers have extended loan commitments in connection with the construction of new subdivisions. When a mortgage banker agrees to ﬁnance a subdivision with conventional and government guaranteed mortgages it is difﬁcult to predict the actual number of FHA and V A guaranteed loans which will be originated. Hence, it is risky for a GNMA issuer to enter mandatory forward con- tracts to deliver the entire estimated amount of loans eligible to be pooled as GNMA securities. By entering an option contract and paying a fee for the option to ‘‘put’’ securities to another party, a GNMA issuer or securities dealer obtains downside market protection, but remains free to obtain the beneﬁts of market apprecia- tion since it can ‘‘walk away’’ from the option contract. In addition to the ﬂexibility of walking away and selling securities at the prevailing market price when GNMA prices are rising, a GNMA issuer avoids the potential risk of pur- chasing mortgages or GNMA securities to cover short forward contracts in the event that produc- tion of GNMA securities falls below anticipated levels. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 5 When a securities dealer sells a standby con- tract granting a GNMA issuer the right ‘‘to put’’ securities to it, the dealer, in turn, will attempt to purchase a matching standby contract from an investor because the dealer does not want to shoulder all of the downside market risk. There is also potential for securities ﬁrms to deal in standby contracts having no relationship to the issuance of GNMA securities. Some illustrations of standby contracts fol- low. They are intended to illustrate the mechan- ics of a standby contract when a banking organi- zation has sold or issued a standby contract granting the contra party the option to ‘‘put’’ GNMA securities to the banking organization. Assumptions 1. Fee paid to banking organization = 1% of contract value 2. Contract delivery price = 98 3. Coupon = 12% Situation 1 On contract exercise date: Market Price = 100. Therefore, the dealer would sell securities at market rather than put them to the bank. Dealer Banking organization Sale price 100 Fee paid (1) 99 Result: Dealer sacriﬁced 1% to insure sale price. Purchase price N/A Fee Received 1 1 Result: Banking organization earned 1% fee for ‘‘standing by.’’ Situation 2 On contract exercise date: Market price = 95. Therefore, dealer would deliver securities pursuant to the standby contract. Dealer Banking organization Sale price 98 Market price 95 Contract gain 3 Fee paid (1) Actual gain 2 Result: Dealer paid 1% fee to avoid 3 point market loss. Purchase price 98 Market price 95 Contract loss (3) Fee received 1 Actual loss (2) Result: Banking organization received 1% fee to compensate for purchasing securities 3 points above market. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 6 2130.0.3.1.3 Futures Contracts Futures Contract transactions involve three types of participants: customers—the buyers or sellers of contracts, brokers, and a futures exchange. As in the forward markets, a buyer (party committed to take delivery of securities speciﬁed in the futures contract) of a futures contract has a ‘‘long’’ contract and the seller (party committed to deliver the underlying secu- rities) has a ‘‘short’’ contract. If a customer desires to purchase (sell) a futures contract, the broker—possibly a member of a clearing house of an exchange—will take the order to the ex- change ﬂoor and purchase (sell) a contract sold (bought) by another customer (through another broker). 1 All futures transactions are made through and carried on the books of clearing house member brokers, who are treated by the exchange as their own customers. Hence, there are always an equal number of long and short contracts outstanding, referred to as the ‘‘open interest,’’ since the auction process requires a buyer and seller for every contract. All futures contracts are obligations of an exchange’s clearing association or corporation, i.e. the clearing association is on the opposite side of each long and short contract; and all transactions are guaranteed within the resources of the exchange’s clearing association (on most futures exchanges a small fee is collected on each transaction and placed into an insurance fund). Should an FCM default on a futures contract, the association pays the costs of com- pleting the contract. 2130.0.4 MARGIN REQUIREMENTS In order to insure the integrity of futures mar- kets, the clearing house requires that member brokers (clearing house members) deposit initial margin in connection with new futures positions carried for the ﬁrm, other brokers or FCMs for whom the clearing house member clears trans- actions, and public customers. The clearing house members in turn require their customers— whether they are other FCMs or public customers—to deposit margin. 2 The FCMs gen- erally require that public customers meet initial margin requirements by depositing cash, pledg- ing government securities, or obtaining irrevo- cable standby letters of credit from substantial commercial banking organizations. Daily main- tenance margin or variation margin calls (depos- its of cash required to keep a certain minimum balance in the margin account) based upon each day’s closing futures prices are calculated pursu- ant to rules of the various futures exchanges, and clearing house members are required to meet daily variation margin calls on positions carried for customers and the ﬁrm. In turn, the FCMs require customers to reimburse them for posting additional margin. Once a customer has executed a futures con- tract to make or accept delivery of securities in the future it is obligated to fulﬁll the terms of the contract. A futures contract cannot be resold over-the-counter because futures contracts are not transferable. However, a customer may ter- minate its obligation under a futures contract either by making or accepting delivery of the securities as speciﬁed by the contract, or by executing an offsetting futures contract (long contract to cancel a short contract or vice-versa) with the same broker to cancel the original contract on the same exchange. The overwhelm- ing majority of futures contracts are closed out by the execution of an offsetting contract prior to expiration. The key to understanding futures transactions is the fact that futures contract prices on U.S. government and agency securities move in the same manner as bond prices; e.g. rising interest rates result in falling futures prices and falling interest rates result in rising futures prices. Hence, the purchase of a futures contract (‘‘long’’ futures contract) at a price of 98 will result in a loss if future market participants perceive rising interest rates in the month of contract expiration and act accordingly; then the offsetting of a futures contract (executing a ‘‘short’’ futures contract) would have to be at a lower price; e.g. 96. As in the case of any commercial transaction, the participant has a loss if the sale price is lower than the purchase 1. Brokers in commodities are required to register as futures commission merchants (‘‘FCMs’’) with the Commodi- ties Futures Trading Commission (‘‘CFTC’’) in order to be eligible to solicit or accept orders to buy or sell futures contracts. 2. In general, the futures exchanges set different initial margin requirements based upon the types of activity engaged in by the customer. Margin requirements are higher for cus- tomer contracts characterized as ‘‘speculative’’ than for those contracts deemed to be ‘‘hedge’’ positions. The commodities industry traditionally deﬁnes someone with a business need for using the futures market as a hedger; others are deﬁned as speculators. Therefore, in instances where there are different initial hedge and speculative margin requirements, it is assumed that banking organizations will only be required to meet margin required for hedgers. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 7 price, or a gain if the sale price is higher than the purchase price. 2130.0.4.1 Variation Margin Calls Variation margin calls for each contract and expiration month are based upon the closing futures exchange price. If there is a change from the previous day’s closing prices, the long con- tract holders will be required to post additional margin which will be passed through via the clearing house process to short contract holders or vice-versa. Subsequent to the computation of variation margin calls, the clearing house mem- ber brokers are required to post variation margin on behalf of the clearing ﬁrm and its customer accounts prior to commencement of the next day’s trading. Then, the clearing brokers call their FCM and public customers requesting more margin to bring the accounts up to the required maintenance margin level. 3 Of course, if a futures position has a gain at the end of the day, the clearing ﬁrm receives a deposit in its margin account. The ﬁrm, in turn, increases the margin account balances of customers holding contracts with gains. For illustrative purposes, we will again assume that a customer purchased a futures con- tract (long contract, face value $100,000) at a price of 98. If the next closing futures price is 97, the customer will have suffered a one point margin loss (if the customer chose to offset the long contract with a short contract, the transac- tion would be closed out at a one point loss). Conversely, the party with a short contract executed at 98 would receive a one point margin payment to his account. Assuming that the initial margin requirement is $1,500 and the variation margin requirement is $1,000, the following summarizes the steps followed in administering a customer’s (long position) margin account in connection with the previously described transaction. Transaction Margin Account Balance 1. Deposit initial margin $1,500 2. Purchase $100,000 contract @ 98 500 3. Day 1—Closing futures price 97 (Reduction of $1,000 in margin account to reimburse broker for posting margin with clearing corporation). 4. FCM calls customer to request $1,000 to bring account up to required initial margin level. 5. Reimbursement to FCM of $1,000 1,500 It is important to note that once the margin account balance falls below the variation margin level, the customer is required to deposit addi- tional funds to replenish the account balance to the initial margin level. If there is a drop in the value of the contract which places the margin account balance below the initial margin level but above the variation margin level, the cus- tomer is not required to deposit additional mar- gin monies. Alternatively, if there is a positive ﬂow of margin monies the customer is free to withdraw any amount which exceeds the initial margin requirement. The entire marking-to-the-market process is repeated at the close of the next business day using a comparison of the previous day’s clos- ing price (97) to the current closing price. (The preceding example is simpliﬁed because it implies that the customer deposits promptly the required margin. In reality, margin is not always deposited so quickly.) In summary, futures trading is a ‘‘zero sum game’’ because of the equal number of long and short contracts outstanding, and the variation margin payments reﬂect this fact, i.e. for every long contract holder posting variation margin, there is a short contract holder receiving margin. 2130.0.5 THE DELIVERY PROCESS Futures contracts are deﬁned as ‘‘standardized contracts traded on organized exchanges to pur- chase or sell a speciﬁed ﬁnancial instrument or physical commodity on a future date at a speci- ﬁed price.’’ Even when a participant keeps a contract open for delivery, the ‘‘speciﬁed price’’ 3. It should be noted that public customers generally have more time to meet maintenance margin calls than do FCMs. However, if a customer fails to meet a variation margin call within three days, the FCM must take a charge against its net capital if it fails to close out the customer’s contract (17 C.F.R. 1.17(c)5(viii)). Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 8 (which corresponds to a speciﬁed yield) is actu- ally obtained through a combination of past futures market gains or losses (incurred through the daily mark to market process) and the cur- rent futures market price. For invoicing pur- poses, the actual delivery price is based upon a closing futures market ‘‘settlement price’’ on a date designated by the exchange. In addition, the ﬁnal calculation of a delivery price on a bond contract will typically involve an adjust- ment reﬂecting the fact that the coupon issue to be delivered against the contract grade (8 per- cent) futures contract is not an 8 percent bond. For example, when current U.S. treasury bond coupons are 12 percent it is highly unlikely that a party with a short futures position would deliver a bond with an 8 percent coupon. 2130.0.6 MECHANICS AND OPERA TION OF FUTURES EXCHANGES Certain technical factors should be noted with respect to futures markets. First, futures markets are not totally free markets. Rules of the exchanges put artiﬁcial constraints—daily price movement limits—upon the amount of daily market movement allowed in given types of futures contracts. For example, government securities prices in the cash market will move as far as the market participants deem necessary to reﬂect the ‘‘market’’ for those securities, while the futures market specifying delivery of the underlying security will be constrained from having the same potential unlimited market movement. There have been instances where persons desiring to close out a futures contract by executing an offsetting contract have been unable to do so for one or more days until the exchange’s daily trading limits allowed futures prices to ‘‘ratchet’’ up or down to the level that reﬂected the true ‘‘market’’ price as perceived by hedgers, speculators, and arbitragers. Although the preceding illustrates the basic nature of futures price movements, do not assume that futures and cash market prices always move in the same direction at the same velocity. Futures prices by deﬁnition predict future events, e.g., a market participant can buy a futures contract to take delivery of a three month Treasury bill two years in the future. 4 In such an instance, the holder of a long T-bill futures contract agrees to the future purchase of a government security which has not yet been issued. There is no reason to assume that a contract with a distant maturity will move in the same manner as the cash market for a three month Treasury bill. In addition, there is a rela- tionship between the cash market price of an existing security and the price of that security in the futures market which is called the basis. The basis can vary signiﬁcantly over the life of a given futures contract. In the contract delivery month, the futures market price will converge towards the cash market price (the basis approaches zero), adjusted for technical factors that reﬂect the costs of processing and deliver- ing securities. If the futures market price did not converge towards the cash market price in the delivery month, the arbitragers would take off- setting futures and cash market positions to arbi- trage away any proﬁtable discrepancies between the two markets. 2130.0.7 COMPARISON OF FUTURES, FORWARD, AND STANDBY CONTRACTS Excluding the fact that futures contracts are traded on organized exchanges, there are many similarities between contracts. Conceptually, the contracts are interchangeable; each type of con- tract can be utilized for hedging, speculating, or arbitrage strategies, but none of the contracts are transferable to third parties. While engaging in contract activities allows the participants to either assume or shift the risks of interest rate changes associated with the security deliverable under the contract, such contracts fail to provide the other beneﬁts of owning the underlying security. Speciﬁcally, ﬁnancial contracts do not pay interest, do not have a U.S. government guaranty of payment of principal at maturity, and cannot be pledged to secure public deposits or be used as collateral for repurchase agree- ments. The forward markets are perceived to be delivery markets wherein there is a high per- centage of delivery of the underlying security. As in the case of other futures markets, the ﬁnancial futures markets were not designed to be delivery markets. Nevertheless, there have been a number of instances when a relatively high percentage of ﬁnancial futures contracts have resulted in delivery. Some persons suggest tax reasons and the deliverable supply of securi- ties as two factors that have contributed to the 4. All ﬁnancial futures contracts have a number of contract expiration months extending into the future. As the near term contract expires, a contract with a more distant expiration date is added. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 9 much higher delivery of securities than delivery of physical commodities. It is, of course, also easier and cheaper to make delivery of securi- ties rather than railroad carloads of grain. Trading units on futures exchanges are stan- dardized. The standardized trading unit in a physical commodity which may be a railroad car of grain; the typical trading unit in a govern- ment or agency security futures contract may be $100,000 or $1 million par principal at a coupon rate (on coupon issues) ﬁxed by the exchange. On the other hand, forward and standby con- tracts are not traded in standardized units with given contract maturity months. Instead, forward and standby contracts are custom made to suit the needs of the two parties to the transaction. While all contract holders are involved with market risks, the holders of forward and standby contracts are especially prone to credit risk. Unlike futures contracts where the mechanics of exchange trading provide for the futures ex- change clearing association to guaranty perfor- mance of each contract, forward and standby contracts are only as good as the entity on the other side of the contract. Anyone who reads the ﬁnancial press should be aware that prior to the passage of the Government Securities Act of 1986, there were a number of defaults involving forward and standby contracts. In an effort to bring increased integrity into the unregulated forward contract markets, there has been a trend by some of the major securities dealers to require the posting of margin in connection with forward contract trading. There are no uniform margin requirements governing all aspects of forward contract trading, nor is there a uniform application of margin requirements by dealers requiring ‘‘house’’ margin (or internal margin requirements established and enforced by indi- vidual securities dealers). GNMA has estab- lished limited margin requirements (24 C.F.R. 390.52), as described below. 2130.0.8 OPTION CONTRACTS Subsequent to the Board’s initial adoption of a policy statement governing futures, forward, and standby contracts, trading of interest rate options began on organized futures and securi- ties exchanges. Proponents of exchange traded options argue that such instruments are attrac- tive to users because they permit the user to obtain down side price risk protection, yet bene- ﬁt from favorable price movement. In contrast, futures and forward contracts allow the user to lock in a speciﬁc price, but the user must forgo future participation if the market should experi- ence an upward price movement. Furthermore, the purchaser of an option pays a one time premium for this protection and is spared the contingent liabilities associated with futures margin calls. An option is a contract that gives the buyer, or holder, the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a speciﬁed ﬁnancial instrument at a ﬁxed price, called the exercise or strike price, before or at a certain future date. Some options, however do not provide for the delivery of the underlying ﬁnancial instrument and, instead, are cash settled. Moreover, in some cases, the underlying ﬁnancial instrument is an index. Options that can be exercised before or at the expiration date are referred to as American options; if an option can be exercised only on the expiration date, it is termed a European option. There are two basic types of options: calls and puts. The call option is any option which obligates the writer to deliver to the buyer at a set price (exercise or strike price) within a speci- ﬁed time limit the underlying ﬁnancial instru- ment. When the market price of the underlying instrument is above the exercise (strike) price of the call, the call option is ‘‘in-the-money.’’ Con- versely, when the market price of the underlying ﬁnancial instrument is below the exercise (strike) price of the call option, the call is ‘‘out- of-the-money.’’ When the market price of the underlying instrument is equal to the strike price, the option is ‘‘at-the-money.’’ At expira- tion, the buyer will exercise the option if it is ‘‘in-the-money’’ or let it expire unexercised if it is out-of-the-money. An out-of-the-money call option has no value at expiration, since buyers will not purchase the underlying instrument at a price above the current market price. Prior to expiration, the value of an ‘‘in-the-money’’ call option is at least equal to the market value of the underlying instrument minus the strike price. The ownership of a call provides signiﬁcant leverage, but raises the breakeven price relative to ownership of the underlying instrument. Holding the call limits the amount of potential loss and offers unlimited potential for gains. A put option gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying instrument at a speciﬁed price (exercise or strike price), before or at expiration. When the market price of the underlying instrument is below the strike price of the put option, the put is ‘‘in-the- money,’’ and a put option is out-of-the-money Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 10 when the market price of the underlying ﬁnan- cial instrument is above the strike price of the put option. Ownership of a put option offers leveraged proﬁtability if the market value of the underlying instrument declines. Some portfolio managers commonly employ ‘‘covered’’ call writing strategies to gain fee income from options written on securities held in the portfolio. If an option position is covered, the seller owns the underlying ﬁnancial instru- ment or commodity or has a futures position. For example, an option position would be ‘‘cov- ered’’ if a seller owns cash market U.S. Treasury bonds or holds a long position on a Treasury bond futures contract. Writing ‘‘covered calls’’ has only limited potential for gain. Writing ‘‘covered calls’’ is not a proper strategy for a market that could rise or fall by substantial amounts. It is generally used in a ﬂat market environment. Referring to the above example, if a seller holds neither the cash market U.S. Treasury Bonds or was not long on the Treasury bond futures contract, the writer would have an uncovered or ‘‘naked’’ position. In such instances, margin would be required (by the exchange, if an exchange traded option—not the case for an OTC option) since the seller would be obligated to satisfy the terms of the option contract if the option buyer exercises the con- tract. The risk potential for loss in writing ‘‘naked calls’’ (calls against which there are no securities held in portfolio) is great since the party required to deliver must purchase the required securities at current market prices. Naked ‘‘covered call’’ writing is generally viewed to be speculative since the risks are theoretically unlimited, particularly if it is done solely to generate fee income. Options are purchased and traded either on organized exchanges or in the over-the-counter (OTC) market. Option contracts follow three- month expiration cycles (example: March/June/ September/December). The option contracts expire on the Saturday following the third Fri- day in the expiration month. Thus, options are considered as ‘‘wasting assets’’ because they have a limited life since they expire on a certain day, even though it may be weeks, months, or years from now. The expiration date is the last day the option can be exercised. After that date the option is worthless. Option premium valuation. The price (value) of an option premium is determined competi- tively by open outcry auction on the trading ﬂoor of the exchange. The premium value is affected by the inﬂow of buy and sell orders reaching the exchange ﬂoor. The buyer of the option pays the premium in cash to the seller of the option which is credited to the seller’s account. Several factors affect the value of an option premium, as discussed below. The option premium consists of two parts, ‘‘intrinsic value’’ and ‘‘time value.’’ The intrinsic value is the gross proﬁt that would be realized upon immedi- ate exercise of the option. Stated another way, it is the amount by which the option is in-the- money. It is the higher of: the value of an option if it is exercised today; or zero. For ‘‘in-the- money’’ call options, it is the difference between the price of the underlying ﬁnancial instrument, and the exercise (strike) price of the option. For ‘‘in-the-money’’ put options, it is the difference of the exercise (strike) price of the put option and the price of the underlying ﬁnancial instru- ment. The intrinsic value is zero for ‘‘at-the- money’’ or ‘‘out-of-the-money’’ options. The time value derives from the chance that an option will gain intrinsic value in the future or that its intrinsic value will increase before matu- rity of the contract. Time value is determined by subtracting intrinsic value from the option pre- mium. For example, Time value = Option premium 2 Intrinsic values Time value = 5–10/64 2 4.00 Time value = 1.15384 The option premium is affected by several other factors. One factor involves the compari- son of the underlying futures price versus the strike price of the option. An option’s price is increased the more that it is in-the-money. A second factor is volatility. Volatile prices of the underlying ﬁnancial instrument can help stimu- late demand for the options, thus increasing the premium. A third factor that affects the pre- mium of an option is the time until expiration. Option premiums are subject to greater price ﬂuctuations because the underlying value of the futures contract changes more with a longer time period. Other factors that affect the option premium are the strike rate(s) and the domestic and foreign (if applicable) interest rates. An exchange-traded option is often referred to as a ‘‘standardized’’ option, reﬂecting the fact that the terms of the contract are uniform with respect to the underlying instrument, amounts, exercise prices, and expiration dates. OTC options are characterized by terms and condi- Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 11 tions which are unique to each transaction. Large ﬁnancial institutions are often dealers in customized interest rate or foreign exchange options. For example, a banking organization might write a ‘‘cap,’’ or series of put option on pounds sterling to protect the dollar value of a sterling denominated receivable due in one year. In this case, an option can be tailored to ﬁt the exact needs of the buyer. Like futures contracts, contract performance on exchange-traded options is guaranteed by the clearing corporation which interposes itself as a central counterparty to all transactions. It substi- tutes itself as a seller to all buyers and as a buyer to all sellers. Standardization combined with the clearing corporation’s guarantee facilitates trad- ing and helps to insure liquidity in the market. The buyer or seller of an exchange-traded option may always close out an open position by enter- ing into an offsetting transaction, with the same strike price and expiration date, and for the same amount. Indeed, most exchange-traded options are liquidated prior to maturity with an offsetting transaction, rather than by exercising the option in order to buy or sell the underlying instrument. Buyers of exchange-traded options are not required to post funds to a margin account because their risk is limited to the premium paid for the option. However, writers (sellers) of options are required to maintain margin accounts because they face substantial amounts of risk. The amount of the margin varies depending upon the volatility in the price of the option. As the option moves closer and closer to being in-the-money, the writer is required to deposit more and more into his margin account, in order to guarantee his performance should the option eventually be exercised. Options on futures contracts provide the holder with the right to purchase (call) or sell (put) a speciﬁed futures contract at the option’s strike price. The difference between the strike price on the option and the quote on the futures contract represents the intrinsic value of the option. Options on futures contracts differ from traditional options in one key way: the party who exercises an option on a futures contract receives a long or short futures position (depending on whether he is exercising a call or put option) rather than accepting or making delivery of the underlying security or ﬁnancial instrument. When the holder of a call option on a futures contract exercises the option and the futures contract is delivered, the option writer must pay the option holder the difference between the futures contract’s current value and the strike price of the exercised call. The buyer takes on a long position, and the writer a short position in the futures contract. When a futures put option is exercised, the holder takes on a short futures position, and the writer a long position. The writer of the put pays the holder the difference between the current price of the futures contract and the strike price of the put option. The resultant futures position, like any other futures position, is subject to a daily marked-to-market valuation. In order to liqui- date the futures position, both the buyer and the seller must undertake offsetting futures transactions. 2130.0.8.1 Other Option Contracts 2130.0.8.1.1 Stock Index Options A stock index option is a call or a put that is based on a stock market index such as the S & P 500. As opposed to a regular call or put option on equity securities where there must be a sale and delivery of shares of stock, there is no delivery of the underlying instrument when an index option is exercised. Rather, settlement is in cash. 2130.0.8.1.2 Foreign Currency Options The right to buy (call) or sell (put) a quantity of a foreign currency for a speciﬁed amount of the domestic currency is a foreign currency option. The size of the contract is standard for each currency. The contracts are quoted in cents per unit of foreign currency. As an example, one call option for the British pound is 12,500 pounds. 2130.0.8.2 Caps, Floors, and Collars Caps, ﬂoors, and collars provide risk protection against ﬂoating interest rates. The market for these products is an outgrowth of the OTC mar- ket in ﬁxed income (bond) options. An interest rate cap contract pays the buyer cash if the short term interest index rises above the strike rate in the contract in exchange for a fee. In combination with a ﬂoating rate obligation, it effectively sets a maximum level on interest rate payments. If market rates are below the cap rate, no payments are made Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 12 under the cap agreement. Thus, the buyer of a cap is able to place a ceiling on his ﬂoating rate borrowing costs without having to forego potential gains from any decline in market rates. Cap agreements typically range in maturity from 6 months to as long as 12 years, with reset dates or frequencies that are usually monthly, quarterly, or semiannual. The London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) is the most widely used reference rate for caps, ﬂoors, and collars. Other indexes used as reference rates are commercial paper rates, the prime interest rate, Treasury bill rates, and certain tax-exempt rates. Cap fees depend upon the cap level, the maturity of the agreement, the volatility of the index used as the reference rate, and market conditions. The higher the cap rate, the lower the premium. The fee is usually paid up front, but can be amortized. An interest rate ﬂoor agreement is used to protect the overall desired rate of return associ- ated with a ﬂoating-rate asset. In accordance with the agreement, the seller receives a fee for the ﬂoor agreement from the holder of the underlying asset. When interest rates fall, the holder of the ﬂoor contract is protected by the agreement, which speciﬁes the ﬁxed per annum rate (ﬂoor rate) that will be retained on those assets, at speciﬁed times during the life of the agreement, even though ﬂoating interest rates may decline further. An interest rate collar is a variation of a cap-only agreement. Under this arrangement the seller of the collar, for a fee, agrees to limit the buyer’s ﬂoating rate of interest within one agreement by a simultaneous sale of a cap and purchase of a ﬂoor, or purchase of a cap and sale of a ﬂoor. When the reference rate is above the cap rate the seller makes payments to the buyer sufﬁcient to return the buyer’s ﬂoating rate interest cost to the cap rate. Conversely, the buyer makes payments to the collar provider to bring its rate back to the ﬂoor whenever the reference rate falls below the ﬂoor rate. In effect, under a collar agreement the buyer is selling a string of call options (the ﬂoor) back to the provider of the cap. The premium received from selling the ﬂoor reduces the overall cost of the cap to the buyer of the collar. Thus, the pre- mium for a ﬂoor/ceiling, or collar, agreement, is lower than for a cap-only agreement with the cap at the same level. This is because the ﬂoor sold to the provider of the collar has a certain value, which is passed along to the buyer in the form of a lower premium. The disadvantage to collars, of course, is that they limit the buyer’s ability to proﬁt from declines in market rates below the speciﬁed ﬂoor. Clearly, one’s interest rate expectations play an important role in determining whether or not to use a collar agreement. It should also be noted that collar agreements involve credit risk on both sides of the agreement, similar to the credit risk considerations found in interest rate swap agreements. The buyer of the collar is exposed to the risk that the provider may default on payments due under the cap agreement; and the provider of the collar is exposed to the risk that the buyer may default on payments due under the ﬂoor agreement. 2130.0.9 REGULA TORY FRAMEWORK GNMA has adopted limited margin require- ments. Speciﬁcally, the GNMA margin require- ments (12 C.F.R. 390.52) require marking- to-market and the posting of maintenance margin. 5 However, the GNMA margin require- ments exclude the majority of GNMA forward contracts and only pertain to contracts involving GNMA issuers with other parties. The Commodities Futures Trading Commis- sion (‘‘CFTC’’) is the agency authorized by Congress to supervise the trading of ‘‘commodi- ties,’’ including ﬁnancial futures. Exchanges which trade commodities must register with the CFTC. In addition, the various futures exchanges must receive CFTC approval before they can begin trading a new futures instrument. Brokers and dealers who execute futures con- tracts for customers must register as Futures Commission Merchants (‘‘FCM’’) with the CFTC. There are also CFTC registration requirements pertaining to ﬁrms engaging in commodities activities similar to an investment advisor or mutual fund in the securities markets. Finally, the surveillance activities of the various futures exchange examiners are subject to over- sight by the CFTC. With the exception of reporting requirements concerning persons or entities with large futures positions, the CFTC’s jurisdiction generally does not extend to ﬁnancial institutions. Rather, the federal and state banking agencies, state 5. Initial margin requirements necessitate the pledging of something of value prior to initiation of a transaction. Depos- iting maintenance margin refers to pledging something of value in reaction to market movements; e.g. depositing cash representing the difference between a forward contract price and its current market value. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2026 Page 13 insurance commissions, and the Ofﬁce of Thrift Supervision are responsible for supervising regulated entities’ future activities, if permitted, under statute or regulation. 2130.0.10 EXAMPLES OF CONTRACT STRA TEGIES For purposes of reporting large positions to the CFTC a market participant deﬁnes its future activities as ‘‘speculative’’ or as ‘‘hedging.’’ Basically, CFTC rules consider a participant to be a hedger if certain facets of such person’s business can be hedged in the futures markets; persons who do not have a business need for participating are deemed to be speculators. It is anticipated that bank holding companies charac- terize their contract activities as ‘‘hedging’’, or possibly as arbitrage between various markets. Examiners must scrutinize contract positions for purposes of evaluating risk. The Board policy statement concerning bank holding companies 6 states: ‘‘. . . the Board believes that any positions that bank holding companies or their nonbank subsidiaries take in ﬁnancial contracts should reduce risk exposure, that is, not be specula- tive.’’ It should be noted, however, that a more liberal interpretation of the policy statement has been permitted for dealer subsidiaries. For example, in a government securities dealer sub- sidiary, it is permissible to use related ﬁnancial contracts as a substitute trading instrument for cash market instruments. Thus, the use of ﬁnan- cial contracts is not limited solely to reducing the risk of dealing activities. Some examples of contract strategies are pro- vided which reduce risk when viewed in isola- tion. A deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial hedge is: ‘‘to enter transactions that will protect against loss through a compensatory price movement.’’ In looking at a hedge transaction in isolation, there should be certain elements present to make a hedge workable: 1. The interest rate futures or forward con- tract utilized should have a high positive corre- lation (prices that tend to move in the same direction with similar magnitude) with the cash position being hedged. In other words, the futures or forward position taken should be structured so that an upward price movement in the contract offsets a downward price move- ment in the cash or risk position being hedged, and vice versa. 2. The type (e.g. T-bill, T-bond, etc.) and size of the contract position 7 taken should have a proportionate relationship to the cash or risk position being hedged, so that futures gains (losses) will approximately offset any losses (gains) on the hedged position. 3. The contract position taken should have a life which is equal to or greater than the end of the period during which the hedge will be out- standing. For example, if interest rate protection was deemed necessary for a six-month time span, it would not ordinarily be wise to enter a contract expiring in three months. 2130.0.10.1 The Mortgage Banking Price Hedge Assume that a mortgage banking subsidiary agrees in June to originate mortgages at a ﬁxed yield in the following October. Unless the loan originator has a forward commitment to sell the loans to a permanent investor(s), it is exposed to a decline in the principal value of mortgages due to a rise in interest rates between the com- mitment date and ultimate sale of the loans. An example of a traditional ‘‘short hedge’’ would be the sale of futures contracts in an attempt to reduce the risk of price ﬂuctuation and insure a proﬁtable sale of the loans. However, in follow- ing this strategy the mortgage originator also chooses to forfeit its ability to reap a proﬁt if interest rates should fall. If interest rates increased, the loss on the sale of mortgages or a pool of mortgage-backed securities will probably be largely offset by a gain on the futures transaction; see example below. If interest rates fall, the mortgage origi- nator would gain on the resale of mortgages but lose on the futures market transaction. Hence, in a true hedge, the hedger’s earnings are relatively 6. The Board’s policy statement on engaging in futures, forwards, and option contracts. 7. Futures market participants engage in a practice, some- times known as ‘‘factorweighting’’ or ‘‘overhedging,’’ to determine the appropriate number of futures contracts neces- sary to have the proper amount of compensatory price move- ment against a hedged cash or risk position. For example, it would require 10 mortgaged-backed futures contracts (8% coupon, $100,000 face value) to hedge an inventory of $1,000,000 mortgage-backed (8% coupon) securities. Alter na- tively, 14 mortgage-backed futures contracts would be required to hedge a $1 million inventory of mortgage-backed securities with a 13 1⁄2% coupon. Overhedging or factor weighting is necessary in hedging securities with higher cou- pons than those speciﬁed in futures contracts (currently 8% on bond futures) because higher coupon securities move more in price for a given change in yield than lower coupons. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2026 Page 14 unaffected by a change in market interest rates in either direction. Generally accepted accounting principles applicable to mortgage activity require that mortgages held for resale be periodically reval- ued to the lower of cost or market (Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 65, ‘‘ Accounting for Certain Mortgage Banking Activities’’). Unrealized gains and losses on out- standing futures contracts are matched against related mortgages or mortgage commitments when the inventory is revalued to the lower of cost or market; i.e. the lower of cost or market valuation is based upon a net ﬁgure including unrealized related futures gains and losses. 2130.0.10.2 Basis Basis is the difference between the cash (spot) price of a security (or commodity) and its futures price. In other words: Basis = Spot price 2 Future price For short-term and intermediate futures con- tracts, the futures price is the quoted futures price times an appropriate conversion factor. For short-term futures contracts the quoted futures price is 100 less the annualized futures interest rate. The invoice price must be deter- mined using yield-to-price conventions for the ﬁnancial instrument involved. Basis may be expressed in terms of prices. Due to the complexities involved in determining the futures price, it is thus better to redeﬁne price basis using actual futures delivery prices rather than quoted futures prices. Thus, the price basis for ﬁxed income securities should be rede- ﬁned as: Price Basis = Spot price 2 Futures delivery price. Basis may also be expressed in terms of inter- est rates. The rate basis is deﬁned as: Rate basis = Spot rate 2 Futures rate The spot rate refers to the current rate on the instrument that can be held and delivered on the contract. The futures rate represents the interest rate that corresponds to the futures delivery price of the deliverable instrument. The rate basis is useful in analyzing hedges of short-term instruments since it nets out all effects resulting from aging. For example, if a one year T-bill has a rate of 9 percent with a price of 85, and a 3-month T-bill has a rate of 9 percent and a price of 94, the price basis would be 29. If a cash security ages, it does not necessarily mean that a change in the rate basis has taken place. 2130.0.10.3 Trading Account Short Hedge Another example of a short hedge pertains to securities dealers that maintain bond trading accounts. While bonds are held ‘‘long’’ (actu- 2130.0.10.3.1 Example 1: A Perfect Short Hedge 1 Month Cash Market Futures Market June Mortgage department makes commitment to a builder to originate $1 million of mortgages (based on current GNMA 8’s cash price) at 98- 28⁄32 for $988,750 Sells 10 December mortgage- backed futures at 96- 8⁄32 for $962,500 to yield 8.59 percent October Mortgage department originates then sells $1 million of pooled mortgages to investors at a price of 95- 20⁄32, for $956,250 Loss: $32,500 Buys 10 December mortgage- backed futures at 93, for $930,000 to yield 8.95 percent Gain: $32,500 1. The effects of margin and brokerage costs on the transaction are not considered. It should be noted that ‘‘perfect hedges’’ generally do not occur. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 15 ally owned by the dealer) in trading accounts, dealers are subject to two risks. First, there is the risk that the cost can change regardless of whether the funds are generated through repur- chase agreement ﬁnancing or the dealer’s other funding sources. When there is an inverted yield curve (short-term interest rates are higher than long-term rates), trading portfolio bonds in inventory yield less than the cost of funds required to carry them. Second, there is the risk that bond market interest rates will rise, thus forcing the dollar price of bonds down. The following example pertains to a bond trad- ing account. Assume that the dealer purchases Treasury bonds on October 4 and simultane- ously sells a similar amount of Treasury bond futures contracts. The illustration ignores com- mission charges and uses futures contracts maturing in March 19x9 because the dealer’s technical analysis discovered an advantage in using the March 19x9, rather than the previous December contract as a hedge. (At that time the previous December contract was the next avail- able contract still trading.) Although the hedge did not prevent the dealer’s trading account from losing money, it limited the loss to $34,375 instead of $415,625. It is worth noting that the preceding example also illustrates some of the dangers of using interest rate futures contracts. Although the futures market proved useful to the trading department, a futures contract could have seri- ous consequences for a dealer using an alleged ‘‘long hedge to lock-in an attractive yield.’’ 2130.0.10.4 Long Hedge In certain areas of the country, ﬁnancial institu- tions desiring to hold public deposits are required to bid competitively for deposits. The case discussed below pertains to a situation where the competitive bids must be tendered one calendar quarter in advance of receiving the deposit. In this example, the asset side of the balance sheet is not discussed since it is assumed that a banking organization paying the prevailing one-year C.D. interest rate can utilize the funds at a proﬁtable spread. In this type of situation the bidding institu- tions are generally vulnerable to falling interest rates; one can safely assume that an institution selected to hold public deposits would not be dismayed to learn subsequently that interest rates had risen and it had locked-in a funding source at or below market rates. However, the funds will not be received for another 3 months. Thus, there is the possibility that interest rates could drop in the interim, leaving a reduced or possibly negative net interest margin when the funds are deployed. There are a number of approaches available to attempt to ensure that future time deposits can be obtained without paying higher than mar- ket interest rates. One method is forecasting the appropriate interest rate to be paid on a given time deposit three months in the future. How- ever, forecasting has become increasingly difﬁ- cult to do with accuracy in the recent periods of ﬂuctuating interest rates. An alternative approach would be to quote the current C.D. rate (adjusted slightly for competitive factors) with an intent to hedge in the futures market if the banking organization’s interest rate bid is Cash Market Futures Market 10/04/1998 Purchase $5MM T-bonds maturing Aug. 2005, 8% coupon at 87- 10⁄32: Principal = $4,365,625 Sell $5MM T-bonds futures contracts expiring Mar. 1999 at 86- 21⁄32: Contract value = $4,332,813 10/23/1998 Sell $5MM T-bonds at 79.0: Principal = 3,950,000 Cash loss = ($415,625) Buy $5MM T-bond futures Mar. 1999 at 79- 1⁄32 Contract value = 3,951,563 Futures gain = $381,250 Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 16 accepted. Upon receiving notiﬁcation that its deposit bid has been accepted, the institution can then purchase an appropriate number of futures contracts to insure a proﬁtable invest- ment spread three months hence when it actu- ally receives the deposit. The following example on June 1, 19x0; the facts are as follows: Size of public deposits offered $10 million Date of deposit September 2, 19x0 Term 1 year Current C.D. rate 8 1⁄4% For purposes of this illustration, assume that a bid was submitted to pay 8 1⁄4% for one year on $10 million. The bids were due June 1 and notiﬁcation was given June 2 of the intention to provide the funds on September 2; and the bank- ing organization decided to purchase futures contracts on June 2. A Treasury bill futures contract, expiring in 3 months, is selected as the hedging vehicle because it reﬂects price movement of an instru- ment with a comparable maturity to one-year C.D., and there was no C.D. futures contract trading. For purposes of this illustration, it is assumed that the contract offers sufﬁcient liquid- ity to enable the banking organization to readily offset its open futures position when necessary. Using the bill contract is an example of ‘‘cross hedging’’ which is deﬁned as the buying or selling of an interest rate futures contract to protect the value of a cash position of a similar, but not identical, instrument. This type of hedg- ing is a measured risk since the outcome of such a transaction is a function of the price correla- tion of the instruments being hedged. At any given moment it is conceivable that a negative correlation could exist between two unlike instruments despite the presence of a strong correlation over an extended time period. 2130.0.10.4.1 Evaluation of the Hedge Total interest (not compounded) to be paid (8 1⁄4%) $ 825,000 Alternative C.D. interest (not compounded) at current rate (11%) 1,100,000 Difference 275,000 Futures trading loss* (179,000) Net difference $ 96,000 *Computation—Purchase price 91.84 Sale price 90.05 1.79 or 179 basis points (179 2 $25.00 2 40 contracts = $179,000) In retrospect, it would have been better if the banking organization would not have hedged. By agreeing to an interest rate on June 2, it obtained deposits on September 2 and will pay approximately $275,000 less in interest pay- ments to the municipality than is required on an ordinary C.D.(s) issued on September 2. The $179,000 futures trading loss, of course, reduced the windfall interest income due the banking organization. A net interest income spread of approximately $96,000, instead of a $275,000, demonstrates two principles: 1) cross hedging can cause unexpected results; and 2) it is quite difﬁcult to ﬁnd perfect hedges in the real world. The hedge was structured so that a cash gain was offset by a futures loss—incorporating the offsetting principles of a hedge transaction. If the general level of interest rates had fallen, a futures gain should have occurred to offset the higher (relative to prevailing market rates) cost of funds obtained on September 2. 2130.0.10.5 Using Options to Create an Interest Rate Floor Assume that on September 28th it is decided to rollover a $1,000,000 investment in 13-week Date C.D. Rate Transactions T-bill Futures 1 June 2, 19x0 8.25% Purchase 40 Contracts 91.84 8.16% Sept. 2, 19x0 11.00% Sell 40 Contracts 90.05 9.95% 1. The size of the trading unit is based upon U.S. T-bills having a face value at maturity of $250,000 (40 2 250M = 10MM). Prices are quoted in terms of an index representing the difference between the actual T-bill yield and 100.00. Every one basis point movement on a contract is equal to $25.00 per contract. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 17 Treasury bills on November 28, which also hap- pens to be the expiration date for call options on the December Treasury bill futures contract. The banking organization, concerned that inter- est rates will fall between September 28 and the rollover date, wishes to hedge the rollover of its investment. The portfolio manager can set a minimum yield on the rollover investment by either buying a Treasury bill future call option, or by buying a Treasury bill futures contract. Further assume that the December Treasury bill futures contract can be bought for a price of 93.70 which implies a discount yield of 6.30 percent. Treasury bill futures call options with a strike price of 93.75, implying a discount yield of 6.25 percent, sell for a premium of 20 basis points, or $600 (20 basis points 2 $25/basis point = $500). If the banking organization could actually buy a Treasury bill futures contract that expired on exactly November 28, then there would be a perfect hedge since the rate of return on the bills would be explicitly ﬁxed by the futures hedging strategy. However, the closest maturing Trea- sury bill futures contract expires in December, several weeks after the rollover date for the banking organization’s investment. Uncertainty over the actual discount yield of the Treasury bills on the rollover date and the yield produced by the hedge is known as ‘‘basis risk,’’ the risk that the yield on the hedge may differ from the expected yield on the hedged item. For purposes of this example, assume that the yield on the futures contract equals the actual discount yield on the 13-week Treasury bills at the rollover date. Thus, the futures hedge in this example will provide an effective discount yield of 6.30 percent on the rollover of the 13-week Treasury bill investment. Assume that rates fall after September 28 and that the discount yield on Treasury bill futures contracts declines from 6.30 percent to 6.00 per- cent at the November 28 expiration date of the December Treasury bill futures options con- tract. The option to buy the Treasury bill futures will be exercised since the strike price of 93.75 is below the market price of 94.00 for the underlying futures contract, yielding a proﬁt of 25 basis points or $625 (25 basis points 2 $25/basis point). The proﬁt must be offset by the 20 basis point cost of the option, which reduces the net proﬁt to 5 basis points. The effective hedged discount yield is 6.05 percent (6.00 per- cent on the 13-week Treasury bills—assuming no basis risk—plus the 5 basis point proﬁt from the hedge). The option hedge produces a yield that is 5 basis points higher than the unhedged yield, but 25 basis points lower than the 6.30 percent yield that would have resulted from hedging with futures. Although the option hedge resulted in a lower effective yield than the futures hedge, it set an absolute ﬂoor on the investment. This is because any decline in the discount yield of the Treasury bills below 6.05 percent would be offset dollar for dollar by the additional proﬁts from the hedge. The real advantage of the option hedge is that, although it establishes a ﬂoor that is lower than the rate ﬁxed by the futures hedge, it allows the hedger to participate in any increase in inter- est rates above the cost of the call premium. For example, if interest rates increased such that the price on the December Treasury bill futures contract on November 28 falls to 93.00, imply- ing a discount yield of 7.00 percent, the option would expire unexercised since the strike price is above the price of the underlying futures contract. Again, assuming that the spot price for the 13-week Treasury bills is equal to the futures price, the effective discount yield is 6.80 percent (7.00 percent minus the 20 basis point call option premium), 50 basis points higher than the yield that would have been provided by the futures hedge. 2130.0.10.6 Hedging a Borrowing with an Interest Rate Cap In order to limit a borrower’s interest rate risk, sophisticated banking institutions may offer cap agreements as part of a loan package to their clients. While such an arrangement provides some comfort that the borrower’s ability to repay will not be jeopardized by a sharp increase in interest rates, it obviously transfers that inter- est rate risk back to the lender. Nevertheless, many banking institutions feel they are better able to manage that risk than are some of their clients. Cap agreements have also been utilized to cap the rate on issued liabilities. For example, an institution might be able to issue medium- term ﬂoating rate notes at 3-month LIBOR plus an eighth of a percent. Alternatively, that institu- tion could issue a capped ﬂoating rate note at 3-month LIBOR plus three-eights of a percent. By subsequently selling the cap separately back into the market the institution could, achieve sub-LIBOR funding, depending on the proceeds from the sale of the cap. A cap agreement is typically speciﬁed by following terms: notional principal amount; Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 18 maturity; underlying index, frequency of reset, strike level. As an illustration, a cap agreement might have the following terms: Notional Principal Amount $10,000,000 Maturity 2 Years Underlying Index 3-month LIBOR Rate Fixing quarterly Payment quarterly, in arrears, on an actual/360-day basis Cap Level 9% Up Front Fee 1.11% of par ($111,000) Under the terms of this agreement, if at any of the quarterly rate ﬁxing dates 3-month LIBOR exceeds the cap level then the seller of the cap would pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the two rates. For exam- ple, if at a reset date LIBOR was set at 10 per- cent, the payment would be: 10%(90/360 2 $10,000,000) 2 9%(90/360 2 $10,000,000) = $25,000 Thus, the writer of the cap would pay the buyer $25,000. If 3-month LIBOR for the quarter were set at or below the cap level of 9 percent, no payment would be made. 2130.0.11 ASSET-LIABILITY MANAGEMENT Financial contracts can be used as a tool in an overall asset-liability management strategy. In order to use ﬁnancial contracts in this context, a BHC or nonbank subsidiary must ﬁrst identify where interest-rate exposure lies as indicated by mismatches between asset and liability struc- tures. In those instances where the BHC or nonbank subsidiary has variable-rate assets and variable-rate liabilities with comparable maturi- ties, there is, in theory, no need to hedge with ﬁnancial contracts since that portion of the asset-liability structure is already hedged. The same holds true for ﬁxed-rate assets and liabili- ties (yielding a positive interest-rate margin) of comparable maturities. Once a BHC or nonbank subsidiary has identiﬁed the undesired mis- matches in assets and liabilities, ﬁnancial con- tracts can be used to hedge against the identiﬁ- able mismatch—for example, long positions in contracts can be used as a hedge against funding interest-sensitive assets with ﬁxed-rate sources of funds, and short positions in contracts can be used as a hedge against funding ﬁxed-rate assets with interest-sensitive liabilities. BHCs or nonbank subsidiaries that choose to employ ﬁnancial contracts as a tool in their general asset-liability management program and properly use ﬁnancial contracts are striving towards worthwhile goals. The discipline of identifying mismatches between assets and liabilities tends to focus the practitioner’s atten- tion on the entire balance sheet. Examiners should be aware that marketing efforts on behalf of the futures exchanges have attempted to focus upon just one side of the balance sheet by ‘‘pair- ing’’ a futures contract with an asset or a liabil- ity. In considering ﬁnancial-contract activities, examiners need to remember that ﬁnancial- contract activities must be evaluated in light of both sides of a balance sheet. One ﬁnal point should be made with respect to ‘‘hedging’’ based upon pairing a futures con- tract against a portfolio security. Since this type of ‘‘hedging’’ can be done while considering only the asset side of the balance sheet, it is possible that such a strategy could increase interest-rate risk rather than reduce it. For exam- ple, assume (unrealistically) that there is a per- fect balance between variable-rate assets and liabilities, and the ﬁrm is evaluating ﬁxed-rate assets and liabilities. Management determines that there is a perfect balance between ﬁxed-rate assets and liabilities and then isolates the last ﬁxed-rate asset and liability. Make the further assumption that the organization holds a six- month note yielding 12 percent which is ﬁnanced by funds maturing in six months which costs the organization 10.5 percent. By execut- ing a short futures contract ‘‘paired’’ against the six-month note, the organization would move from an overall ‘‘hedged’’ position to an ‘‘unhedged’’ position. In other words, the futures contract would move the organization from an overall neutral position and expose the organization to interest-rate risk. It should be evident why it is more productive to consider the ‘‘big picture’’ in inspections rather than focusing upon individual or Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 19 ‘‘paired’’ (futures against each position) transac- tions. The most meaningful approach is to evaluate hedging strategies and open ﬁnancial contract positions in light of its business needs, operations, and asset-liability mix. 2130.0.12 INSPECTION OBJECTIVES 1. To determine the purpose of ﬁnancial- contract positions. Any positions that bank holding companies or their nonbank subsidi- aries (except certain authorized dealer subsidiaries) take in ﬁnancial contracts should reduce risk exposure, that is, not be speculative. 2. To determine whether prudent written poli- cies, appropriate limitations, and internal controls and audit programs have been estab- lished and whether management information systems are sufﬁciently adequate to monitor risks associated with contracts involving futures, forwards, and options (including caps, ﬂoors, and collars). 3. To determine whether policy objectives con- cerning the relationship of subsidiary bank- ing organizations and the parent bank hold- ing company specify that each banking organization in a holding company system must be treated as a separate entity. 4. To determine reporting compliance in accordance with the Board’s bank holding company policy statements. See section 2130.0.17 for the appropriate cites. 2130.0.13 INSPECTION PROCEDURES The term ‘‘banking organization’’ is used gener- ally to refer to a bank holding company, the parent company, or nonbank subsidiary. 1. Determine if the banking organization’s ﬁnancial-contract activities are related to the basic business of banking. Consider whether the ﬁnancial-contract activities are closely related to the basic busi- ness of banking; that is, taking deposits, mak- ing and funding loans, providing services to customers, and operating at a proﬁt for share- holders without taking undue risks. Taking ﬁnancial-contract positions solely to proﬁt upon interest-rate forecasts is considered to be an unsafe and unsound practice. Proﬁt- ability of contract activities is not the crite- rion for evaluating such activities. It is quite probable that a bona ﬁde hedge strategy could result in a contract loss which would be offset by increased interest earnings or a higher price for an asset sold, for example, a pool of mortgages. Criticize contracts placed solely to proﬁt upon interest-rate movements. Verify that contract activities are conducted in accordance with the Board’s policy state- ment. Where contract positions are of exces- sive size and could jeopardize the ﬁnancial health of the entity under examination, the gains or losses realized because of ﬁnancial- contract activities should be criticized. 2. Ascertain whether policy objectives high- light the circumstances under which ﬁnancial contracts should be used. Determine whether management and oper- ating personnel have received sufﬁcient guid- ance. Carefully constructed policy objectives should be formulated with the knowledge that although proper utilization of ﬁnancial contracts limits loss potential, such utiliza- tion also limits potentials for gains. Policy objectives should be formulated to limit required resources (margin monies, commis- sions, and personnel to execute, monitor, and audit contract activities). A well-constructed policy should be designed to preclude vari- ous operating areas of a banking orga- nization from taking offsetting ﬁnancial con- tract positions. Finally, there should be established benchmarks for determining whether ﬁnancial contracts are meeting desired objectives. 3. Determine if policy objectives concerning the relationship of subsidiary banking organi- zations and the parent bank holding company comply with the Board’s directives. Each banking organization in a holding company system must be treated as a sepa- rate entity. The policy statement accommo- dates centralized holding companies in that the holding companies are free to provide guidance to subsidiary banking organizations and execute contracts as agent on behalf of the banking organization, provided that each banking organization maintains responsibil- ity for ﬁnancial contract transactions executed on its behalf. Accordingly, a hold- ing company that has centralized manage- ment could, and perhaps should, consider the interest-rate exposure of its subsidiary banks on a consolidated basis in determining whether future contracts can usefully be employed to reduce that exposure, but any future contracts that are executed must be recorded on the books and records of a sub- Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 20 sidiary bank that will directly beneﬁt from such contracts. The question concerning the relationship of a subsidiary bank to its holding company may also lead one to consider the relation- ship of a subsidiary bank with its correspon- dent bank or broker. One might also query to what extent may less sophisticated institu- tions rely upon brokers and/or correspondent banking organizations for advice in this area? Less sophisticated institutions can place only limited reliance on others for advice in this area. The bank holding company policy statement 8 emphasizes that responsibility for ﬁnancial-contract activities rests solely with management. Additional information on securities transactions and the selections of securities dealers can be found in sec- tion 2126.1. 4. Ascertain whether policy objectives and/or position limits require prudence on the part of authorized personnel entering into these new activities. If discretion is left to senior managers, determine whether management has issued instructions to ensure that the level of ﬁnancial-contract activity is prudent relative to the capabilities of persons autho- rized to execute and monitor contracts. A new activity such as ﬁnancial contracts should, as a general rule, be entered slowly. In developing expertise, management should mandate a low level of activity until persons authorized to execute contracts gain sufﬁ- cient expertise or until new personnel are employed that have sufﬁcient training and experience to engage in ﬁnancial-contract activities on a larger scale. Senior manage- ment must develop the expertise to under- stand and evaluate techniques and strategies employed to ensure that an experienced pro- fessional does not engage in improper or imprudent activities. 5. If a banking organization uses ﬁnancial con- tracts as part of its overall asset-liability man- agement strategy, determine whether the organization developed an adequate system for evaluating its interest-rate risk. Without a system for identifying and mea- suring interest-rate risk, it is impossible to engage in hedging activity in an informed and meaningful manner. Failure to identify the mismatches in the organization’s asset- liability mix would make it difﬁcult to select the proper number and types of ﬁnancial contracts—for example, bond or bill ﬁnan- cial contracts—to provide an appropriate amount of interest-rate-risk protection. Evaluate whether the organization’s interest- rate-risk measurement techniques appear rea- sonable to determine whether the ﬁnancial contracts employed were successful in pro- viding the proper amount of futures gains (losses) to cover the hedged risk position. 6. Determine if the recordkeeping system is sufﬁciently detailed to permit personnel to document and describe in detail how ﬁnancial-contract positions taken have con- tributed to the attainment of the banking organization’s stated objectives. There is no universal, adequate record- keeping system for this purpose. Examiners must evaluate each individual system rela- tive to the organization’s stated objectives and activities. If the recordkeeping system cannot be used to illustrate how ﬁnancial contracts contributed to the attainment of the banking organization’s stated objectives, the recordkeeping system is inadequate. BHCs with inadequate recordkeeping systems should be instructed to make appropriate modiﬁcations. 7. Ascertain whether the banking organization’s board of directors has established written limitations with respect to ﬁnancial-contract positions. NOTE: The bank holding company pol- icy statement requires that the board of directors establish written policies and posi- tion limitations in connection with ﬁnancial-contract activities. If a committee has been delegated similar responsibilities within the organization, and a committee makes the decision, its recommendation should be ratiﬁed by the board of directors. 8. If there is the potential to exceed the above limitations in certain instances, determine whether there are ﬁrm, written procedures in place concerning the authorizations nec- essary to exceed limits. 9. Determine whether the board of directors, a duly authorized committee thereof, or inter- nal auditors review at least monthly ﬁnancial-contract positions to ascertain con- formance with limitations. (See item (b) of the bank holding company policy statement.) 10. Determine if the banking organization maintains general-ledger memorandum accounts or commitment registers to adequately identify and control all 8. The Board’s policy statement on engaging in futures, forwards, and option contracts. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 21 ﬁnancial-contract commitments to make or take delivery of securities or money market instruments. 11. Determine if the banking organization issues or writes option contracts expiring in excess of 150 days which give the other party to the contract the option to deliver securities to it. Examiners should review the facts sur- rounding standby contracts issued by hold- ing companies. Examiners should also review accounting entries connected with bank holding company standby contracts to determine whether standbys were issued to earn fee income ‘‘up front’’ and exploit the lack of generally accepted accounting principles. 12. Determine whether ﬁnancial-contract posi- tions are properly disclosed in notes to the statements of ﬁnancial condition and income and that the contract positions have been properly reported on FR Y-9C, Sched- ule HC-F, ‘‘Off-Balance-Sheet Items.’’ 13. Determine whether the banking organiza- tion has implemented a system for monitor- ing credit-risk exposure associated with various customers and dealers with whom operating personnel are authorized to trans- act business. All ﬁnancial-contract trading involves market risks. However, forward and OTC options trading, as well as swap activities, also involve credit risk. The key concern is whether the contra party to a transaction will be ready, willing, and able to perform on contract settlement and payment dates. While maintaining control over credit-risk exposure should ensure that a ﬁnancial organization will not enter excessive (rela- tive to the ﬁnancial condition of the contra party) forward or standby contracts, moni- toring such exposure may not prevent default in all instances. 14. Ascertain whether the banking organization has implemented internal controls and inter- nal audit programs to ensure adherence to written policies and prevent unauthorized trading and other abuses. 15. Determine if the Reserve Bank was notiﬁed at the inception of bank holding company futures, forward, and option activities as required by paragraph (f) of the holding company policy statement (Federal Reserve Regulatory Service 4–830). 16. Determine if the personnel engaged in ﬁnancial-contract activities have sufﬁcient knowledge and understanding of the mar- kets to perform those functions. 2130.0.13.1 Evaluating the Risks of Contract Activities Evaluating the organization’s stated objectives and their effects on overall risk is a difﬁcult task involving legitimate cause for concern because of the high degree of leverage involved in con- tract activities. Although there is an emerging trend towards dealers requiring margin on for- ward trades, forward contract transactions gen- erally have not required margin deposits, and thus, grant users unlimited leverage. Although the amount of margin required for futures trades is extremely small (for example, $1,500 initial margin to take a $1 million futures position), the rules of the exchanges do require a daily mark to market and a requirement that members of the futures exchanges meet maintenance margin calls on behalf of their customers. Customers, of course, are generally required to promptly reim- burse brokers for margin posted on their behalf. Nevertheless, engaging in contract activities requires market participants to assume the mar- ket risks of either owning securities or ‘‘short- ing’’ securities. Issuing (or selling) standby con- tracts granting the other party to the contract the option to deliver securities is a practice which results in the issuer functioning as an insurer against downside market risk for the other party; in essence, the party receiving the standby fee assumes all of the interest-rate risks of security ownership, but receives none of the beneﬁts. 2130.0.13.2 Reviewing Financial-Contract Positions The preceding questions were designed to focus the examiner’s attention on a bank holding com- pany’s stated objectives for engaging in ﬁnan- cial contract activities and the manner in which such activities are conducted. It is also vital to review position records with respect to ﬁnancial contracts or, if necessary, prepare a schedule grouping similar contracts by maturity. Once the various positions have been scheduled it will be possible to evaluate the risk of contract positions relative to the organization under inspection. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 22 2130.0.13.3 Factors to Consider in Evaluating Overall Risk To determine whether contract positions are rea- sonable, an examiner must evaluate positions in light of certain key factors: the size of the orga- nization, its capital structure, its business needs, and its capacity to fulﬁll its obligations. For example, open contracts to purchase $7 million of GNMA securities would be viewed differ- ently in a BHC with $24 million of assets than in a BHC with $1 billion of assets. There is no guaranty that ﬁnancial contract prices and cash market prices will move in the same direction at the same velocity; however, contract prices and cash market prices ulti- mately move towards price convergence in the delivery month. Keeping this fact in mind, the risk evaluating process can be simpliﬁed by thinking of the securities underlying the various contracts as a frame of reference. For example, if a BHC holds ‘‘long’’ futures contracts on $10 million (par value) of Treasury bonds the examiner should ﬁrst evaluate the effect (excluding tangible beneﬁts of ownership, e.g., interest income, pledging, etc.) on the organiza- tion of holding $10 million of bonds in its portfolio and the resultant appreciation or depre- ciation if interest rates rise or fall by a given amount. A ‘‘short’’ contract of $10 million Trea- sury bonds would be evaluated as if the banking organization had executed a short sale for $10 million. In addition, the examiner would have to consider the positive or negative ﬂow of funds received or disbursed as margin to reﬂect daily contract gains and losses. While commis- sions on futures contracts are not a major factor in hedging transactions, they also should be considered in this evaluation. Typically, com- missions are charged on a ‘‘round turn’’ basis— meaning that commissions are charged based upon an assumption that each futures contract will be offset prior to maturity. Since each con- tract will have to be offset, or securities bought or delivered, it should be determined whether funds will be available to offset contracts or fund delivery. In the case of certain short contracts, a determination must be made as to whether deliverable securities are held or committed for purchase by the banking organization. 2130.0.13.4 Contract Liquidity In addition to looking at the ‘‘big picture,’’ examiners should consider a position in a given contract maturity month relative to the volume of contracts outstanding. For example, in futures trading there is generally a greater open interest in the next contract maturity month and perhaps the following one or two contract maturity months. As one moves away from the near term contracts, there is generally less trading and less ‘‘open interest’’ in the more distant contracts. ‘‘Open interest’’ or the amount of contracts out- standing is reported in ﬁnancial newspapers and other publications. Generally, the contracts with the largest open interest and daily trading vol- ume are considered to be the most liquid. To illustrate the concept discussed above, one should consider the following example. A ‘‘red ﬂag’’ should be apparent if a contract review discloses that the organization has taken a size- able position in a contract expiring in two years. When the examiner checks ﬁnancial newspapers and other publications, he or she may discover that the BHC’s position represents 20 percent of the open interest in that contract. Such a situa- tion would clearly be unsafe and unsound because the relatively huge position coupled with the typically less liquid conditions in dis- tant contracts makes it highly unlikely that the BHC could quickly close out its position if necessary. In addition, one should also question why the distant maturity was chosen since there is no immediate reason to expect a close correla- tion to the cash market for the underlying security. With respect to forward contracts, there is an active forward market for GNMA securities specifying delivery of the underlying securities up to four or ﬁve months in the future. If a banking organization is executing contracts for more distant maturities, management should be queried as to why it is necessary to trade outside the normal trading cycle. 2130.0.13.5 Relationship to Banking Activities In evaluating contract activities, examiners should verify that contract strategies are carried to fruition in connection with their relationship to overall objectives. Examiners may ﬁnd it useful to recommend additional recordkeeping in borderline cases when they encounter situa- tions where ﬁnancial-contract positions are closed out frequently during the hedge period, but not frequently enough to be considered trad- ing rather than hedging activities. Examiners should suggest proper documentation with Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 23 regard to ﬁnancial contracts executed and any additional recordkeeping as needed. Speciﬁ- cally, users could be requested to establish writ- ten criteria specifying what circumstances will trigger the closing of such contracts. Then users would be judged by how well they adhered to the criteria as well as whether the plan reduced risk. Hopefully, such recordkeeping would give users the latitude to close out a ﬁnancial- contract position working against them (as determined by some prearranged benchmark), yet still require sufﬁcient discipline to prevent users from selectively executing ﬁnancial con- tracts merely to proﬁt upon interest-rate forecasts. The preceding discussion should reinforce the fact that the actual utilization of ﬁnancial con- tracts is not a clear-cut issue in terms of hedging verses speculation. However, certain key con- cepts should be kept in mind. First, a decision to hedge with futures or forward contracts involves making a decision that one is content to lock in an effective cost of funds, a sale price of a speciﬁc asset, etc. However, the decision to hedge which gives downside protection also means forfeiting the beneﬁts which would result from a favorable market movement. Thus, in evaluating hedge strategies, the organization should be judged as to whether it maintained hedge positions long enough to accomplish its objectives. Caution should be employed in performing the analysis of ﬁnancial contracts used to obtain targeted effective interest rates. Examiners should not evaluate transactions solely on a ‘‘paired’’ basis, that is, looking at paired cash market and ﬁnancial-contract positions and for- getting about ﬁnancial-contract positions rela- tive to the organization’s entire balance sheet, nor should examiners fail to review the overall nature of ﬁnancial-contract activities. For exam- ple, individual opening and closing of ﬁnancial contracts could appear reasonable, but the aggregate activities may be indicative of an organization that is in reality operating a futures trading account solely to proﬁt on interest-rate expectations. 2130.0.13.6 Parties Executing or Taking the Contra Side of a Financial Contract In addition to monitoring contra-party credit risk, serious efforts should be made to ensure that the banking organization carefully scruti- nizes the selection of brokers and dealers. In the case of futures contracts, the Commodity Exchange Act requires that an entity functioning as a futures commission merchant be registered with the CFTC. However, not every FCM may be a member of a commodities exchange. Mem- bers of an exchange are given additional super- vision by the exchange, while nonmembers are subject to audit by the National Futures Associa- tion. In selecting any broker or dealer, an organi- zation should give careful consideration to its ﬁnancial viability and length of time in busi- ness. (For additional discussion, see Federal Reserve Regulatory Service 3–1562). Although such measures cannot ensure that problems will not subsequently develop with an FCM or broker-dealer, some careful forethought can tend to ensure that relationships will not be devel- oped with persons or ﬁrms who had serious problems in the past. 2130.0.14 ACCOUNTING FOR FUTURES CONTRACTS All futures contracts, except for foreign- currency futures contracts, shall be reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies in accordance with Finan- cial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) State- ment No. 80, ‘‘ Accounting for Futures Con- tracts.’’ Foreign-currency futures contracts shall be reported in accordance with the guidance in FASB Statement No. 52, ‘‘Foreign Currency Translation.’’ 2130.0.14.1 Performance Bonds under Futures Contracts When the reporting banking organization, as either buyer or seller of futures contracts, has posted a performance bond in the form of a margin account deposited with a broker or exchange, the current balance (as of the report date) of that margin account shall be reported in Other Assets. The balance in the margin account includes the following: 1. the original margin deposit, plus (less) 2. any additions (deductions) as a result of daily ﬂuctuations in the market value of the related contracts (i.e., ‘‘variation margin’’), plus 3. any additional deposits made to the account to meet margin calls or otherwise (i.e., ‘‘maintenance margin’’), less 4. any withdrawals of excess balances from the account Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2026 Page 24 When the performance bond takes the form of a pledge of assets with a broker rather than a margin account, the pledged assets shall be maintained on the books of the pledging bank- ing organization and no other balance-sheet entry is made for the performance bond. In this case, gains and losses resulting from daily ﬂuc- tuations in the market value of the related con- tracts are generally settled with the broker in cash. However, if the pledging banking organi- zation also maintains a working balance with the broker against which recognized daily mar- ket gains and losses are posted, the working balance should be reported in Other Assets, and treated in the same manner as a margin account. 2130.0.14.2 Valuation of Open Positions All open positions in futures contracts must be reviewed at least monthly (or more often, if material) and their current market values deter- mined. The market value of a futures contract is to be based on published price quotations. These futures positions must be revalued at their cur- rent market values on these valuation dates and any changes in these values reported in accor- dance with the guidance presented below for hedge or nonhedge contracts, as appropriate. 2130.0.14.3 Criteria for Hedge-Accounting Treatment A futures contract shall be accounted for as a hedge when the following conditions are met: 1. The banking organization must have deter- mined that the item or group of items to be hedged (that is, the identiﬁable assets, liabili- ties, ﬁrm commitments, or anticipated trans- actions) will expose it to price or interest-rate risk. 2. The futures contract must reduce the expo- sure to risk. This will be demonstrated if, at the inception of the hedge and throughout the hedge period, high correlation is expected to exist between the changes in the prices of both the contract and the hedged item or group of items. 9 In other words, the banking organization must monitor the price movements of both the hedge contract and the hedged items to determine that it is prob- able that changes in the market value of the futures contract will offset the effects of price changes on the hedged items. 3. The futures contract must be designated in writing as a hedge by management at the inception of the hedge. In order for a futures contract to qualify as a hedge of an anticipated transaction, the following two additional criteria must be met: a. The signiﬁcant characteristics and expected terms of the anticipated transac- tion must be identiﬁed. b. The occurrence of the anticipated transac- tion must be probable. 10 2130.0.14.4 Gains and Losses from Monthly Contract Valuations of Futures Contracts That Qualify as Hedges If the hedge criteria are met, the accounting for the futures contract shall be related to the accounting for the hedged item so that changes in the market value of the futures contract are recognized in income when the effects of related changes in the price or interest rate of the hedged item are recognized. If a banking organi- zation must include unrealized changes in the fair value of a hedged item in income, a change in the market value of the related futures con- tract shall be recognized in income when the change occurs. Otherwise, a change in the mar- ket value of a futures contract that qualiﬁes as a hedge of an existing asset or liability shall be recognized as an adjustment of the carrying amount of the hedged item. A change in the market value of a futures contract that is a hedge of a ﬁrm commitment shall be included in the measurement of the transaction that satisﬁes the commitment. A change in the market value of a futures contract that is a hedge of an anticipated transaction shall be included in the measure- ment of the subsequent transaction. Once the carrying amount of an asset or lia- bility has been adjusted for the change in the market value of a futures contract, the adjust- ment must be recognized in income in the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of that asset or liability (for example, using the interest method). If the item being 9. Generally, banking practice maintains that correlation in the changes in the market values of the futures contract and the hedged item must be at least 80 percent for the ‘‘high correlation’’ criteria in FASB Statement No. 80 to be met. 10. It will be particularly difﬁcult to meet this criteria when an anticipated transaction is not expected to take place in the near future. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 25 hedged is an interest-bearing ﬁnancial instru- ment otherwise reported at amortized historical cost, then the changes in the market value of the hedge contract that have been reﬂected as adjustments in the carrying amount of the ﬁnan- cial instrument shall be amortized as an adjust- ment of interest income or expense over the expected remaining life of the hedged item. If a futures contract that has been accounted for as a hedge of an anticipated transaction is closed before the date of the related transaction, the accumulated change in value of the contract shall be carried forward (assuming high correla- tion continues to exist) and included in the measurement of the related transaction. When it becomes probable that the quantity of the antici- pated transaction will be less than that originally hedged, a pro rata portion of the futures results that would have been included in the measure- ment of the transaction shall be recognized as a gain or loss. When futures contracts that are hedges are terminated, the gain or loss on the terminated contracts must be deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the hedged item. 2130.0.14.5 Gains and Losses from Monthly Contract Valuations of Futures Contracts That Do Not Qualify as Hedges For futures contracts that are not accounted for as hedges, the change that has occurred in the market value of open positions since the last call report date shall be reﬂected in current income, either as ‘‘other noninterest income’’ for net gains or ‘‘other noninterest expense’’ for net losses. If high correlation ceases to exist, the banking organization should discontinue accounting for a futures contract as a hedge. When this occurs, the portion of the change in the market value of the contract that has not offset the market value changes of the hedged item, since the inception of the hedge, must be reﬂected in the Report of Income as ‘‘other noninterest income’’ or ‘‘other noninterest expense,’’ as appropriate. The con- tract should thereafter be accounted for as a nonhedge contract with subsequent changes in the contract’s market value reﬂected in current period income. When futures contracts that are not hedges are terminated, the gain or loss on the termi- nated contract must be recognized currently in the Report of Income as ‘‘other noninterest income’’ or ‘‘other noninterest expense,’’ as appropriate. There is the potential for holding companies and nonbank subsidiaries to follow the refer- enced accounting applications and break ‘‘hedges’’ with unrealized futures gains to rec- ognize income, and maintain hedges with futures losses and adjust the carrying basis of the paired, that is, ‘‘hedged’’ asset. Examiners should look for patterns of taking gains and losses with a view to determining whether the opening and closing of contracts is consistent with the organization’s risk-reducing strategies. 2130.0.15 PREPARING INSPECTION REPORTS Unsatisfactory comments pertaining to a bank holding company’s ﬁnancial-contract activities should be noted on the ‘‘Examiner’s Com- ments,’’ ‘‘Policies and Supervision,’’ and ‘‘ Analysis of Financial Factors’’ or other appro- priate page depending on the severity of the comments within the bank holding company inspection report. 2130.0.16 INTERNAL CONTROLS AND INTERNAL AUDIT The following is designed to illustrate desirable internal controls and internal audit procedures applicable to the organization’s activities in ﬁnancial contracts. This illustration is not intended to serve as an absolute standard relat- ing to contract activities, but is designed to supplement examiners’ knowledge relating to internal controls and internal audits in this con- text. In evaluating internal controls and audits, the examiner will need to evaluate the scope of futures, forward, and options activities to deter- mine whether internal controls and audit proce- dures are adequate in relation to the volume and nature of the activities. 2130.0.16.1 Internal Controls It is a management’s responsibility to minimize the risks inherent in ﬁnancial-contract activities through the establishment of policies and proce- dures covering organizational structure, segre- gation of duties, operating and accounting sys- tem controls, and comprehensive management reporting. Formal written procedures should be in place in connection with purchases and sales, Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 26 processing, accounting, clearance and safekeep- ing activities relating to these transactions. In general, these procedures should be designed to ensure that all ﬁnancial contracts are properly recorded and that senior management is aware of the exposure and gains or losses resulting from these activities. Some examples of desir- able controls follow: 1. Written documentation indicating what types of contracts are eligible for purchase by the organization, which individual persons are eligible to purchase and sell contracts, which individual persons are eligible to sign con- tracts or conﬁrmations, and the names of ﬁrms or institutions with whom employees are authorized to conduct business. 2. Written position limitations for each type of contract established by the banking organiza- tion’s board of directors and written proce- dures for authorizing trades, if any, in excess of those limits. 3. A system to monitor the organization’s expo- sure with customers and those broker- dealers and institutions eligible to do busi- ness with it. To implement this, management must determine the amount of credit risk permissible with various parties and then institute surveillance procedures to ensure that such limits are not exceeded with- out written authorization from senior management. 4. Separation of duties and supervision to ensure that persons executing transactions are not involved in approving the accounting media and/or making accounting entries. Further, persons executing transactions should not have authority to sign incoming or outgoing conﬁrmations or contracts, rec- oncile records, clear transactions, or control the disbursement of margin payments. 5. A clearly deﬁned ﬂow of order tickets and conﬁrmations. Conﬁrmations generated should, preferably, be prenumbered. In addi- tion to promptly recording all commitments in a daily written commitment ledger, the related documentation should be ﬁled sepa- rately for purposes of audit and examination. The ﬂow of conﬁrmations and order tickets should be designed to verify accuracy and enable reconciliations throughout the system, for example, to ensure that a person could not execute unauthorized transactions and bypass part of the accounting system, and to enable the reconcilement of traders’ position reports to those positions maintained by an operating unit. 6. Procedures to route incoming conﬁrmations to an operations unit separate from the trad- ing unit. Conﬁrmations received from bro- kers, dealers, or others should be compared to conﬁrmations (or other control records) prepared by the banking organization to ensure that it will not accept or make deliv- ery of securities, or remit margin payments, pursuant to contracts unless there is proper authorization and documentation. 7. Procedures for promptly resolving fails to receive or fails to deliver securities on the date securities are due to be received or sent pursuant to contracts. 8. Procedures for resolving customer com- plaints by someone other than the person who executed the contract. 9. Procedures for verifying brokers’ reports of margin deposits and contract positions (use an outside pricing source), and reconciling such reports to the records. 10. Procedures for daily review of outstanding contracts and supervision of traders. In addition, there should be periodic reports to management reﬂecting the margin deposits and contract positions. 11. Selecting and training competent person- nel to follow the written policies and guidelines. 2130.0.16.2 Internal Audit The scope and frequency of the internal audit program should be designed to review the inter- nal control procedures and verify that the inter- nal controls purported to be in effect are being followed. Further, the internal auditor should verify that there are no material inadequacies in the internal control procedures that would per- mit a person acting individually to perpetrate errors or irregularities involving the records of the organization or assets that would not be detected by the internal control procedures in time to prevent material loss or misstatement of the banking organization’s ﬁnancial statements or serious violation of applicable banking, bank holding company, or securities rules or regula- tions. Any weaknesses in internal control proce- dures should be reported to management, along with recommendations for corrective action. If internal auditors do not report to an audit com- mittee, the person to whom they report should not be in a position to misappropriate assets. In addition, auditors should occasionally spot- Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 27 check contract prices and mark-to-market adjustments. 2130.0.17 LA WS, REGULA TIONS, INTERPRETA TIONS, AND ORDERS Subject Laws 1 Regulations 2 Interpretations 3 Orders Statement of policy concerning bank holding companies engaging in futures, forward, and options contracts on U.S. government and agency securities and money market instruments 225.142 4–830 Policy Statement on Financial Contracts 3–1535 Supervisory Policy Statement on Investment Securities and End-User Derivatives Activities 3–1562 1. 12 U.S.C., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 2. 12 C.F.R., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 3. Federal Reserve Regulatory Service reference. Futures, Forward, and Option Contracts 2130.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 28 Securities Lending Section 2140.0 Financial institutions, including bank holding company subsidiaries, are lending securities with increasing frequency, and, in some instances, a ﬁnancial institution may lend its own investment or trading-account securities. Financial institutions lend customers’ securities held in custody, safekeeping, trust, or pension accounts. Because the securities available for lending often greatly exceed the demand for them, inexperienced lenders may be tempted to ignore commonly recognized safeguards. Bank- ruptcies of broker-dealers have heightened regu- latory sensitivity to the potential for problems in this area. 2140.0.1 SECURITIES-LENDING MARKET Securities brokers and commercial banks are the primary borrowers of securities. They borrow securities to cover securities fails (securities sold but not available for delivery), short sales, and option and arbitrage positions. Securities lend- ing, which used to involve principally corporate equities and debt obligations, increasingly involves loans of large blocks of U.S. govern- ment and federal-agency securities. Securities lending is conducted through open- ended ‘‘loan’’ agreements, which may be termi- nated on short notice by the lender or borrower. Repurchase agreements are generally used by owners of securities as ﬁnancing vehicles and, in certain respects, are closely analogous to securities lending. The objective of securities lending, however, is to receive a safe return in addition to the normal interest or dividends. Securities loans in industry practice are gener- ally collateralized by U.S. government or federal-agency securities, cash, or letters of credit. 1 At the outset, each loan is collateralized at a predetermined margin. If the market value of the collateral falls below an acceptable level during the time a loan is outstanding, a margin call is made by the lender institution. If a loan becomes over-collateralized because of appreci- ation of collateral or market depreciation of a loaned security, the borrower usually has the opportunity to request the return of any exces- sive margin. When a securities loan is terminated, the securities are returned to the lender and the collateral to the borrower. Fees received on securities loans are divided between the lender and the customer account that owns the securi- ties. In situations involving cash collateral, part of the interest earned on the temporary invest- ment of cash is returned to the borrower, and the remainder is divided between the lender and the customer account that owns the securities. 2140.0.2 DEFINITIONS OF CAPACITY Securities lending may be done in various capacities and with differing associated liabili- ties. It is important that all parties involved understand in what capacity the lender is acting. For the purposes of these guidelines, the rel- evant capacities are as follows: 1. Principal. A lender offering securities from its own account is acting as principal. A lender institution offering customers’ securi- ties on an undisclosed basis is also consid- ered to be acting as principal. 2. Agent. A lender offering securities on behalf of a customer-owner is acting as an agent. For the lender to be considered a bona ﬁde or ‘‘fully disclosed’’ agent, it must disclose the names of the borrowers to the customer-own- ers (or give notice that names are available upon request), and must disclose the names of the customer-owner to borrowers (or give notice that names are available upon request). In all cases, the agent’s compensa- tion for handling the transaction should be disclosed to the customer-owner. Undis- closed agency transactions, that is, ‘‘blind brokerage’’ transactions in which partici- pants cannot determine the identity of the contra party, are treated as if the lender was the principal. 3. Directed agent. A lender which lends securi- ties at the direction of the customer-owner is acting as a directed agent. The customer directs the lender in all aspects of the transac- tion, including to whom the securities are loaned, the terms of the transaction (rebate rate and maturity/call provisions on the loan), acceptable collateral, investment of any cash collateral, and collateral delivery. 4. Fiduciary. A lender which exercises discre- tion in offering securities on behalf of and for the beneﬁt of customer-owners is acting as a ﬁduciary. For purposes of these guidelines, 1. Broker-dealers borrowing securities are subject to the restrictions of the Federal Reserve’s Regulation T (12 C.F.R. 220.10), which speciﬁes acceptable borrowing purposes. BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 1 the underlying relationship may be as agent, trustee, or custodian. 5. Finder .A ﬁnder brings together a borrower and a lender of securities for a fee. Finders do not take possession of the securities or collateral. Delivery of securities and collat- eral is direct between the borrower and the lender, and the ﬁnder does not become involved. The ﬁnder is simply a fully dis- closed intermediary. 2140.0.3 GUIDELINES All bank holding companies or their subsidi- aries that participate in securities lending should establish written policies and procedures gov- erning these activities. Other than commercial banks with trust departments, the bank holding company subsidiaries most likely to be engaged in securities lending are non-deposit-taking trust companies and certain discount brokers which provide custody services and make margin loans. At a minimum, policies and proce- dures should cover each of the topics in these guidelines. 2140.0.3.1 Recordkeeping Before establishing a securities-lending pro- gram, a ﬁnancial ﬁrm or institution must estab- lish an adequate recordkeeping system. At a minimum, the system should produce daily reports showing which securities are available for lending, and which are currently lent, out- standing loans by borrower, outstanding loans by account, new loans, returns of loaned securi- ties, and transactions by account. These records should be updated as often as necessary to ensure that the lender institution fully accounts for all outstanding loans, that adequate collat- eral is required and maintained, and that policies and concentration limits are being followed. 2140.0.3.2 Administrative Procedures All securities lent and all securities standing as collateral must be marked to market daily. Pro- cedures must ensure that any necessary calls for additional margin are made on a timely basis. In addition, written procedures should outline how to choose the customer account that will be the source of lent securities when they are held in more than one account. Possible methods include loan volume analysis, automated queue, a lottery, or some combination of these. Securi- ties loans should be fairly allocated among all accounts participating in a securities-lending program. Internal controls should include operating procedures designed to segregate duties and timely management reporting systems. Periodic internal audits should assess the accuracy of accounting records, the timeliness of manage- ment reports, and the lender’s overall compli- ance with established policies and the ﬁrm’s procedures. 2140.0.3.3 Credit Analysis and Approval of Borrowers In spite of strict standards of collateralization, securities-lending activities involve risk of loss. Such risks may arise from malfeasance or fail- ure of the borrowing ﬁrm or institution. There- fore, a duly established management or super- visory committee of the lender should formally approve, in advance, transactions with any borrower. Credit and limit approvals should be based upon a credit analysis of the borrower. A review should be performed before establishing such a relationship and reviews should be conducted at regular intervals thereafter. Credit reviews should include an analysis of the borrower’s ﬁnancial statement, and should consider capital- ization, management, earnings, business reputa- tion, and any other factors that appear relevant. Analyses should be performed in an indepen- dent department of the lender, by persons who routinely perform credit analyses. Analyses per- formed solely by the person(s) managing the securities-lending program are not sufﬁcient. 2140.0.3.4 Credit and Concentration Limits After the initial credit analysis, management of the lender should establish an individual credit limit for the borrower. That limit should be based on the market value of the securities to be borrowed, and should take into account possible temporary (overnight) exposures resulting from a decline in collateral values or from occasional inadvertent delays in transferring collateral. Credit and concentration limits should take into account other extensions of credit by the lender to the same borrower or related interests. Securities Lending 2140.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 2 Procedures should be established to ensure that credit and concentration limits are not exceeded without proper authorization from management. 2140.0.3.5 Collateral Management Securities borrowers generally pledge and main- tain collateral at a level equal to at least 100 per- cent of the value of the securities borrowed. 2 The minimum amount of excess collateral, or ‘‘margin,’’ acceptable to the lender should relate to price volatility of the loaned securities and the collateral (if other than cash). 3 Generally, the minimum initial collateral on securities loans is at least 102 percent of the market value of the lent securities plus, for debt securities, any accrued interest. Collateral must be maintained at the agreed margin. A daily ‘‘mark-to-market’’ or valuation procedure must be in place to ensure that calls for additional collateral are made on a timely basis. The valuation procedures should take into account the value of accrued interest on debt securities. Securities should not be lent unless collateral has been received or will be received simultane- ously with the loan. As a minimum step toward perfecting the lender’s interest, collateral should be delivered directly to the lender or an indepen- dent third-party trustee. 2140.0.3.6 Cash as Collateral When cash is used as collateral, the lender is responsible for making it income productive. Lenders should establish written guidelines for selecting investments for cash collateral. Gener- ally, a lender will invest cash collateral in repur- chase agreements, master notes, a short-term investment fund (STIF), U.S. or Eurodollar cer- tiﬁcates of deposit, commercial paper, or some other type of money market instrument. If the lender is acting in any capacity other than as principal, the written agreement authorizing the lending relationship should specify how cash collateral is to be invested. Using cash collateral to pay for liabilities of the lender or its holding company would be an improper conﬂict of interest unless that strategy was speciﬁcally authorized in writing by the owner of the lent securities. 2140.0.3.7 Letters of Credit as Collateral If a lender plans to accept letters of credit as collateral, it should establish guidelines for their use. Those guidelines should require a credit analysis of the banks issuing the letter of credit before securities are lent against that collateral. Analyses must be periodically updated and reevaluated. The lender should also establish concentration limits for the banks issuing letters of credit, and procedures should ensure they are not exceeded. In establishing concentration lim- its on letters of credit accepted as collateral, the lender’s total outstanding credit exposures from the issuing bank should be considered. 2140.0.3.8 Written Agreements Securities should be lent only pursuant to a written agreement between the lender and the owner of the securities, speciﬁcally authorizing the institution to offer the securities for loan. The agreement should outline the lender’s authority to reinvest cash collateral (if any) and responsibilities with regard to custody and valu- ation of collateral. In addition, the agreement should detail the fee or compensation that will go to the owner of the securities in the form of a fee schedule or other speciﬁc provision. Other items which should be covered in the agreement have been discussed earlier in these guidelines. A lender must also have written agreements with the parties who wish to borrow securities. These agreements should specify the duties and responsibilities of each party. A written agree- ment may detail acceptable types of collateral (including letters of credit); standards for collat- eral custody and control, collateral valuation and initial margin, accrued interest, marking to market, and margin calls; methods for transmit- ting coupon or dividend payments received if a security is on loan on a payment date; condi- tions which will trigger the termination of a loan 2. Employee beneﬁt plans subject to the Employee Retire- ment Income Security Act are speciﬁcally required to collater- alize securities loans at a minimum of 100 percent of the market value of loaned securities (see section 2140.0.3.10 below). 3. The level of margin should be dictated by level of risk being underwritten by the securities lender. Factors to be considered in determining whether to require margin above the recommended minimum include the type of collateral, the maturity of collateral and lent securities, the term of the securities loan, and the costs which may be incurred when liquidating collateral and replacing loaned securities. Securities Lending 2140.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 3 (including events of default); and acceptable methods of delivery for loaned securities and collateral. 2140.0.3.9 Use of Finders Some lenders may use a ﬁnder to place securi- ties, and some ﬁnancial institutions may act as ﬁnders. A ﬁnder brings together a borrower and a lender for a fee. Finders should not take pos- session of securities or collateral. The delivery of securities loaned and collateral should be direct between the borrower and the lender. A ﬁnder should not be involved in the delivery process. The ﬁnder should act only as a fully disclosed intermediary. The lender must always know the name and ﬁnancial condition of the borrower of any securities it lends. If the lender does not have that information, it and its customers are exposed to unnecessary risks. Written policies should be in place concern- ing the use of ﬁnders in a securities-lending program. These policies should cover circum- stances in which a ﬁnder will be used, which party pays the fee (borrower or lender), and which ﬁnders the lender institution will use. 2140.0.3.10 Employee Beneﬁt Plans The Department of Labor has issued two class exemptions which deal with securities-lending programs for employee beneﬁt plans covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA): Prohibited Transaction Exemption 81-6 (46 FR 7527 (January 23, 1981) and cor- rection (46 FR 10570 (February 3, 1981))), and Prohibited Transaction Exemption 82-63 (47 FR 14804 (April 6, 1982)). The exemptions autho- rize transactions which might otherwise consti- tute unintended ‘‘prohibited transactions’’ under ERISA. Any ﬁrm engaged in the lending of securities for an employee beneﬁt plan subject to ERISA should take all steps necessary to design and maintain its program to conform with these exemptions. Prohibited Transaction Exemption 81-6 per- mits the lending of securities owned by employee beneﬁt plans to persons who could be ‘‘parties in interest’’ with respect to such plans, provided certain conditions speciﬁed in the exemption are met. Under those conditions, neither the borrower nor an afﬁliate of the bor- rower can have discretionary control over the investment of plan assets, or offer investment advice concerning the assets, and the loan must be made pursuant to a written agreement. The exemption also establishes a minimum accept- able level for collateral based on the market value of the loaned securities. Prohibited Transaction Exemption 82-63 per- mits compensation of a ﬁduciary for services rendered in connection with loans of plan assets that are securities. The exemption details certain conditions which must be met. 2140.0.3.11 Indemniﬁcation Certain lenders offer participating accounts indemniﬁcation against losses in connection with securities-lending programs. Such indem- niﬁcations may cover a variety of occurences including all ﬁnancial loss, losses from a bor- rower default, or losses from collateral default. Lenders that offer such indemniﬁcation should obtain a legal opinion from counsel concerning the legality of their speciﬁc form of indemniﬁ- cation under federal and/or state law. A lender which offers an indemnity to its customers may, in light of other related factors, be assuming the beneﬁts and, more importantly, the liabilities of a principal. Therefore, lenders offering indemniﬁcation should also obtain writ- ten opinions from their accountants concerning the proper ﬁnancial statement disclosure of their actual or contingent liabilities. Securities Lending 2140.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 4 2140.0.4 LA WS, REGULA TIONS, INTERPRETA TIONS, AND ORDERS Subject Laws 1 Regulations 2 Interpretations 3 Orders Securities Lending policy statement of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, adopted by the Federal Reserve Board on May 6, 1985 3–1579.5 1. 12 U.S.C., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 2. 12 C.F.R., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 3. Federal Reserve Regulatory Service reference. Securities Lending 2140.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 5 Repurchase Transactions 1 Section 2150.0 Depository institutions and others involved with the purchase of United States Government and Agency obligations under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements), 2 have some- times incurred signiﬁcant losses. The most important factors causing these heavy losses have been inadequate credit risk management and the failure to exercise effective control over securities collateralizing the transactions. 3 The following minimum guidelines address the need for managing credit risk exposure to counterparties under securities repurchase agreements and for controlling the securities in those transactions, and should be followed when entering into repurchase agreements with securi- ties dealers and others. Depository institutions and nonbank subsidi- aries that actively engage in repurchase agree- ments are encouraged to have more comprehen- sive policies and controls to suit their particular circumstances. The examining staffs of the Fed- eral Reserve should review written policies and procedures of dealers to determine their adequacy in light of these minimum guidelines and the scope of each subsidiary’s operations. 2150.0.1 CREDIT POLICY GUIDELINES The apparent safety of short-term repurchase agreements which are collateralized by highly liquid, U.S. Government and Federal agency obligations has contributed to an attitude of complacency. Some portfolio managers have underestimated the credit risk associated with the performance of the counterparty to the trans- actions, and have not taken adequate steps to assure control of the securities covered by the agreement. All ﬁrms that engage in securities repurchase agreement transactions should establish written credit policies and procedures governing these activities. At a minimum, those policies and procedures should cover the following: Written policies should establish ‘‘know your counterparty’’ principles. Engaging in repur- chase agreement transactions in volume and in large dollar amounts frequently requires the ser- vices of a counterparty who is a dealer in the underlying securities. Some ﬁrms which deal in the markets for U.S. Government and Federal agency securities are subsidiaries of, or related to, ﬁnancially stronger and better known ﬁrms. However, these stronger ﬁrms may be indepen- dent of their U.S. Government securities subsid- iaries and afﬁliates and may not be legally obli- gated to stand behind the transactions of related companies. Without an express guarantee, the stronger ﬁrm’s ﬁnancial position cannot be relied upon in assessing the creditworthiness of a counterparty. It is important to know the legal entity that is the actual counterparty to each repurchase agreement transaction. Know about the actual counterparty’s character, integrity of manage- ment, activities, and the ﬁnancial markets in which it deals. Be particularly careful in con- ducting repurchase agreements with any ﬁrm that offers terms that are signiﬁcantly more favorable than those currently prevailing in the market. In certain situations ﬁrms may use, or serve as, brokers or ﬁnders in order to locate repur- chase agreement counterparties or particular securities. When using or acting as this type of agent the names of each counterparty should be fully disclosed. Do not enter into undisclosed agency or ‘‘blind brokerage’’ repurchase trans- actions in which the counterparty’s name is not disclosed. 2150.0.1.1 Dealings with Unregulated Securities Dealers A dealer in U.S. Government and Federal agency obligations is not necessarily a Federally insured bank or thrift, or a broker/dealer regis- tered with the Securities and Exchange Com- 1. A repurchase agreement is a transaction involving the sale of assets by one party to another, subject to an agreement by the seller to repurchase the assets at a speciﬁed date or in speciﬁed circumstances. 2. In order to avoid confusion among market participants who sometimes use the same term to describe different sides of the same transaction, the term ‘‘repurchase agreement’’ will be used in the balance of this statement to refer to both repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. A repurchase agreement is one in which a party that owns securities acquires funds by transferring the securities to another party under an agreement to repurchase the securities at an agreed upon future date. A reverse repurchase (resale) agreement is one in which a party provides funds by acquiring securities pursuant to an agreement to resell them at an agreed upon future date. 3. Throughout this document repurchase agreements are generally discussed in terms of secured credit transactions. This usage should not be deemed to be based upon a legal determination. BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 mission. Therefore, the dealer ﬁrm may not be subject to any Federal regulatory oversight. A ﬁrm doing business with an unregulated securities dealer should be certain that the dealer voluntarily complies with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s minimum capital guide- line, which currently calls for liquid capital to exceed measured risk by 20 percent (that is, the ratio of a dealer’s liquid capital to risk of 1.2:1). This ratio can be calculated by a dealer using either the Securities and Exchange Commis- sion’s Net Capital Rule for Brokers and Dealers (Rule 15c31) or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Capital Adequacy Guidelines for United States Government Securities Dealers. To ensure that an unregulated dealer complies with either of those capital standards, it should certify its compliance with the capital standard and provide the following three forms of certiﬁcation: 1. A letter of certiﬁcation from the dealer that the dealer will adhere on a continuous basis to the capital adequacy standard; 2. Audited ﬁnancial statements which dem- onstrate that as of the audit date the dealer was in compliance with the standard and the amount of liquid capital; and 3. A copy of a letter from the ﬁrm’s certiﬁed public accountant stating that it found no mate- rial weaknesses in the dealer’s internal sys- tems and controls incident to adherence to the standard. 4 Periodic evaluations of counterparty credit- worthiness should be conducted by individuals who routinely make credit decisions and who are not involved in the execution of repurchase agreement transactions. Prior to engaging in initial transactions with a new counterparty, obtain audited ﬁnancial state- ments and regulatory ﬁlings (if any) from coun- terparties, and insist that similar information be provided on a periodic and timely basis in the future. Recent failures of government securities dealers have typically been foreshadowed by delays in producing these statements. Many ﬁrms are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker/dealers and have to ﬁle ﬁnancial statements and should be willing to provide a copy of these ﬁlings. The counterparty credit analysis should con- sider the ﬁnancial statements of the entity that is to be the counterparty as well as those of any related companies that could have an impact on the ﬁnancial condition of the counterparty. When transacting business with a subsidiary, consolidated ﬁnancial statements of a parent are not adequate. Repurchase agreements should not be entered into with any counterparty that is unwilling to provide complete and timely dis- closure of its ﬁnancial condition. As part of this analysis, the ﬁrm should make inquiry about the counterparty’s general reputation and whether there have been any formal enforcement actions against the counterparty or its afﬁliates by State or Federal securities regulators. Maximum position and temporary exposure limits for each approved counterparty should be established based upon credit analysis per- formed. Periodic reviews and updates of those limits are necessary. Individual repurchase agreement counterparty limits should consider overall exposure to the same or related counterparty. Repurchase agree- ment counterparty limitations should include the overall permissible dollar positions in repur- chase agreements, maximum repurchase agree- ment maturities and limits on temporary expo- sure that may result from decreases in collateral values or delays in receiving collateral. 2150.0.2 GUIDELINES FOR CONTROLLING REPURCHASE AGREEMENT COLLA TERAL Repurchase agreements can be a useful asset and liability management tool, but repurchase agreements can expose a ﬁrm to serious risks if they are not managed appropriately. It is pos- sible to reduce repurchase agreement risk by negotiating written agreements with all repur- chase agreement counterparties and custodian banks. Compliance with the terms of these writ- ten agreements should be monitored on a daily basis. If prudent management control require- ments of repurchase agreements are too burden- some, other asset/liability management tools should be used. The marketplace perceives repurchase agree- ment transactions as similar to lending transac- tions collateralized by highly liquid Govern- ment securities. However, experience has shown that the collateral securities will probably not serve as protection if the counterparty becomes insolvent or fails, and the purchasing ﬁrm does not have control over the securities. Ultimate responsibility for establishing adequate control procedures rests with management of the ﬁrm. Management should obtain a written legal opin- 4. This letter should be similar to that which must be given to the SEC by registered broker/dealers. Repurchase Transactions 2150.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 2 ion as to the adequacy of the procedures utilized to establish and protect the ﬁrm’s interest in the underlying collateral. A written agreement speciﬁc to a repurchase agreement transaction or master agreement gov- erning all repurchase agreement transactions should be entered into with each counterparty. The written agreement should specify all the terms of the transaction and the duties of both the buyer and seller. Senior managers should consult legal counsel regarding the content of the repurchase and custodial agreements. The repurchase and custodial agreements should specify, but should not be limited to, the following: • Acceptable types and maturities of collateral securities; • Initial acceptable margin for collateral securi- ties of various types and maturities • Margin maintenance, call, default and sellout provisions; • Rights to interest and principal payments; • Rights to substitute collateral; and • The persons authorized to transact business on behalf of the ﬁrm and its counterparty. 2150.0.2.1 Conﬁrmations Some repurchase agreement conﬁrmations may contain terms that attempt to change the ﬁrm’s rights in the transaction. The ﬁrm should obtain and compare written conﬁrmations for each repurchase agreement transaction to be certain that the information on the conﬁrmation is con- sistent with the terms of the agreement. The conﬁrmation should identify speciﬁc collateral securities. 2150.0.2.2 Control of Securities As a general rule, a ﬁrm should obtain posses- sion or control of the underlying securities and take necessary steps to protect its interest in the securities. The legal steps necessary to protect its interest may vary with applicable facts and law and accordingly should be undertaken with the advice of counsel. Additional prudential management controls may include: • delivery of either physical securities to, or in the case of book entry securities, making appropriate entries in the books of a third party custodian designated under a written custodial agreement which explicitly recog- nizes the ﬁrm’s interest in the securities as superior to that of any other person; or • appropriate entries on the books of a third party custodian acting pursuant to a tripartite agreement with the ﬁrm and the counterparty, ensuring adequate segregation and identi- ﬁcation of either physical or book-entry securities. Where control of the underlying securities is not established, the ﬁrm may be regarded only as an unsecured general creditor of the insolvent counterparty. In such instance, substantial losses are likely to be incurred. Accordingly, a ﬁrm should not enter into a repurchase agreement without obtaining control of the securities unless all of the following minimum procedures are observed: (1) it is completely satisﬁed as to the creditworthiness of the counterparty; (2) the transaction is within credit limitations that have been pre-approved by the board of directors, or a committee of the board, for unsecured transac- tions with the counterparty; (3) periodic credit evaluations of the counterparty are conducted; and (4) the ﬁrm has ascertained that collateral segregation procedures of the counterparty are adequate. Unless prudential internal procedures of these types are instituted and observed, the ﬁrm may be cited for engaging in unsafe or unsound practices. All receipts and deliveries of either physical or book-entry securities should be made accord- ing to written procedures, and third party deliv- eries should be conﬁrmed in writing directly by the custodian. It is not acceptable to receive conﬁrmation from the counterparty that the securities are segregated in a ﬁrm’s name with a custodian; the ﬁrm should, however, obtain a copy of the advice of the counterparty to the custodian requesting transfer of the securities to the ﬁrm. Where securities are to be delivered, payment for securities should not be made until the securities are actually delivered to the ﬁrm or its agent. The custodial contract should pro- vide that the custodian takes delivery of the securities subject to the exclusive direction of the ﬁrm. Substitution of securities should not be allowed without the prior consent of the ﬁrm. The ﬁrm should give its consent before the delivery of the substitute securities to it or a third party custodian. Any substitution of securi- ties should take into consideration the following discussion of ‘‘margin requirements.’’ Repurchase Transactions 2150.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 2150.0.2.3 Margin Requirements The amount paid under the repurchase agree- ment should be less than the market value of the securities, including the amount of any accrued interest, with the difference representing a pre- determined margin. Factors to be considered in establishing an appropriate margin include the size and maturity of the repurchase transaction, the type and maturity of the underlying securi- ties, and the creditworthiness of the counter- party. Margin requirements on U.S. Government and Federal agency obligations underlying repurchase agreements should allow for the anticipated price volatility of the security until the maturity of the repurchase agreement. Less marketable securities may require additional margin to compensate for less liquid market conditions. Written repurchase agreement poli- cies and procedures should require daily mark- to-market of repurchase agreement securities to the bid side of the market. Repurchase agree- ments should provide for additional securities or cash to be placed with the ﬁrm or its custodian bank to maintain the margin within the predeter- mined level. Margin calculations should also consider accrued interest on underlying securities and the anticipated amount of accrued interest over the term of the repurchase agreement, the date of interest payment and which party is entitled to receive the payment. In the case of pass-through securities, anticipated principal reductions should also be considered when determining margin adequacy. Prudent management procedures should be followed in the administration of any repurchase agreement. Longer term repurchase agreements require management’s daily attention to the effects of securities substitutions, margin main- tenance requirements (including consideration of any coupon interest or principal payments) and possible changes in the ﬁnancial condition of the counterparty. Engaging in open repur- chase agreement transactions without maturity dates may be regarded as an unsafe and unsound practice unless the ﬁrm has retained rights to terminate the transaction quickly to protect itself against changed circumstances. Similarly, auto- matic renewal of short-term repurchase agree- ment transactions without reviewing collateral values and adjusting collateral margin may be regarded as an unsafe and unsound practice. If additional margin is not deposited when required, the ﬁrm’s rights to sell securities or otherwise liquidate the repurchase agreement should be exercised without hesitation. 2150.0.2.4 Overcollateralization A ﬁrm should use current market values, includ- ing the amount of any accrued interest, to deter- mine the price of securities that are sold under repurchase agreements. Counterparties should not be provided with excessive margin. Thus, the written repurchase agreement contract should provide that the counterparty must make additional payment or return securities if the margin exceeds agreed upon levels. When acquiring funds under repurchase agreements it is prudent business practice to keep at a reason- able margin the difference between the market value of the securities delivered to the counter- party and the amount borrowed. The excess market value of securities sold may be viewed as an unsecured loan to the counterparty subject to the unsecured lending limitations for the ﬁrm and should be treated accordingly for credit policy and control purposes. 2150.0.3 OPERA TIONS A ﬁrm’s operational functions should be designed to regulate the custody and movement of securities and to adequately account for trad- ing transactions. Because of the dollar volume and speed of trading activities, operational inef- ﬁciencies can quickly result in major problems. In some cases, a ﬁrm may not receive or deliver a security by settlement date. When a ﬁrm fails to receive a security by the settlement date, a liability exists until the transaction is consummated or cancelled. When the security is not delivered to the contra-party by settlement date, a receivable exists until that ‘‘fail’’ is resolved. ‘‘Fails’’ to deliver for an extended time, or a substantial number of cancellations, are sometimes characteristic of poor operational control or questionable trading activities. Fails should be controlled by prompt report- ing and follow-up procedures. The use of multi- copy conﬁrmation forms enables operational personnel to retain and ﬁle a copy by settlement date and should allow for prompt fail reporting and resolution. Repurchase Transactions 2150.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 4 2150.0.4 LA WS, REGULA TIONS, INTERPRETA TIONS, AND ORDERS Subject Laws 1 Regulations 2 Interpretations 3 Orders Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy statement, adopted by the Federal Reserve Board on November 12, 1985, on repurchase agreements 3–1579 1. 12 U.S.C., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 2. 12 C.F.R., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 3. Federal Reserve Regulatory Service reference. Repurchase Transactions 2150.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 5 Recognition and Control of Exposure to Risk Section 2160.0 Risk management is an important responsibility of any bank holding company. The objective of this responsibility is to determine and limit the extent of the holding company organization’s vulnerability to uncontrollable variables. While all companies perform risk evaluation in some form and exercise some degree of control over its magnitude, the precise processes used differ considerably across organizations in terms of formality, extensiveness, and effectiveness. It should be recognized that many organizations have only an implicit risk evaluation process, and that it may be appropriate to recommend that this process be formalized. Ultimately, the board of directors of the parent company should be held accountable for the consolidated risk evaluation and control. Risk management at any level involves two basic elements: evaluation and control. Risk evaluation involves three steps: determination of exposures; speciﬁcation of uncontrollable variables that have an impact on each exposure; and quantiﬁcation of the expected effect of each variable on exposure. After the extent of exist- ing or potential risk is determined, decisions to limit or control risk are made. This procedure is ever present, since most transactions create exposure, and every exposure has some element of risk. The following two sections discuss the risk evaluation and the risk control processes in very broad terms in an attempt to provide a framework that can be applied to most organiza- tions. 2160.0.1 RISK EV ALUA TION The risk identiﬁcation process begins with a determination of exposures that an institution has to the environment. Exposure conceptually occurs in every trans- action undertaken by a banking organization. Because of the magnitude of the list of potential exposures, institutions generally limit their efforts to extremely large exposures, to areas where losses appear likely, and to activities where the market is changing and new expo- sures are created. The size of an exposure gener- ally is dependent on the size of a transaction. This is true both for transactions recorded on accounting balance sheets and for those which occur off balance sheet. Exposure is not neces- sarily determined by the likelihood of loss. For example, many holding company organizations have a large ‘‘exposure’’ in Treasury bills, but do not consider these transactions to be risky. The list of exposures that banks commonly identify has increased dramatically in the past decade. Historically, the primary focus has been on the exposure of the loan portfolio centering on the ﬁnancial security of each individual loan; recently industry and geographical exposure of loans has increased in importance. The exposure of ﬁxed assets, such as buildings, to ﬁres, ﬂoods and other problems also has been recognized. In more recent years, exposure of mismatched maturities of assets and liabilities to interest rate movements has increased in importance as interest-rate movements have sharply ﬂuctu- ated. While this exposure had always existed, it had not been recognized as particularly danger- ous until recently. Another example of an expo- sure that historically was considered safe is repurchase agreements backed by government securities. When Drysdale Government Securi- ties, Inc. failed, several risks were brought to light—whether the instrument is a loan (that would be tied up in case of bankruptcy) or a sale and potential liability when serving as an agent of a government securities ﬁrm that fails. A particularly difﬁcult area to evaluate is exposure to legal action. For example, a suit against a bank over lending terms and representations is difﬁcult to anticipate and the exposure could be signiﬁcant. Numerous exposures exist that many holding company organizations may not recognize. For example, the Federal Reserve System encour- ages evaluation of wire transfer exposure. This exposure is very large and theoretically a break- down on the framework or compromise of inter- nal systems could result in major failures. Expo- sure from foreign exchange contracts also can be large, and may not always be recognized. Fraud and exposure of management to kidnap- ping continue to increase in importance. And ﬁnally, some major holding company organiza- tions have found that dependence on short-term market funds creates a risky exposure. When access to a funding market may be suddenly withdrawn, the exposure of the entire funding process is an issue. The second step of the risk identiﬁcation pro- cess is speciﬁcation of the variables that could affect an exposure and determination of what the impact would be. This process is difﬁcult, since any number of variables may inﬂuence an exposure. Further- more, as the environment changes new variables BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 may appear relevant and the effects of variables may change. For example, the recent problems of public sector lending to foreign countries with loans denominated in dollars having ﬂoat- ing interest rates during inﬂationary periods may not have been fully evaluated at the time of the lending process. Determining inﬂuential variables is particu- larly difﬁcult with new products. A historical examination cannot be made of these new prod- ucts and questions may go unanswered regard- ing the stability of the new markets. For exam- ple, problems have occurred in hedging operations as underlying instruments did not move as expected, thus negating the hedging contract. Consequently, the hedge created an exposure rather than reducing an exposure. The ﬁnal step of the risk identiﬁcation process is risk quantiﬁcation. Conceptually, this involves calculation of an expected loss of value related to variance of a particular environmental factor. This has two parts: (1) estimation of the probability that a given variance will occur; and (2) determination of the cost impact of each potential variance. Probabilities are often drawn up in general terms. In some cases historical records facilitate estimation of probabilities. Measurement of credit risk in an organization that specializes by industry or geography may be an example of this. In the most recent recession, however, many past records have proven not to be accu- rate predictors. In other situations, the holding company organization may evaluate the effect of a change but be unwilling to estimate prob- abilities of the change occurring. An example of this is managing asset and liability maturi- ties. The effect of a change in interest rates on proﬁts may be determined; but, in many cases, institutions will not derive probabilities on the direction and/or magnitude of interest rate movements. The difﬁculty of quantifying costs and prob- abilities is exacerbated by emergence of new products and by environmental changes. With a new product, it is particularly difﬁcult to deter- mine the cost of a variance. For example, atten- tion to interest rate risk has induced organiza- tions to resort to hedging to reduce exposure. Innovative instruments are difﬁcult to hedge, however, since the issuer may inaccurately gauge price movements. In this case, the expo- sure results not from price movements, but from inability to predict the relationship between market and price ﬂuctuations. Furthermore, as the environment changes, the effect of a variable on an exposure changes as does the cost and probability of the occurrence. For example, in the 1970’s the impact of inﬂation on the bank- ing system would have been very different with- out the concurrent economic downturn and the technological advances. 2160.0.2 RISK CONTROL After management has identiﬁed and evaluated risk, they may decide the risk or cost of an action is sufﬁciently low (and management is conﬁdent all possible variables have been identi- ﬁed) that the holding company can take on the risk as it is; if not there are a number of options that can be used to control the risk. Attempts to control risk can be accomplished through a com- bination of three general techniques: purchase of insurance, limitation of exposure size, and reduction of the expected cost associated with a variance. The use of insurance to decrease the effect of a loss on the corporation is common for exposure to ﬁre, theft, kidnapping, and internal fraud. Various types of loans are underwritten by third parties. The innovative use of insurance may prove to have various applications to risk control in the banking industry. As with other contracts, the ﬁnancial strength of the counter- party (the insurer) is important, and the organi- zation’s method of selecting and monitoring underwriters should be evaluated. Management generally limits the level of exposure in relationship to the size of assets, capital or earnings. In most situations, relating the level of exposure to capital would appear appropriate. Reduction of exposure will auto- matically reduce risk, assuming other variables remain constant. Constraints should be deter- mined by line management at a seniority level commensurate with the degree of perceived risk. Depending on the degree of risk, there may be a need for the board of directors to approve the constraints. The third method of reducing the potential loss to the corporation involves decreasing the probability of a variance occurring or decreas- ing the probable effect when a variance occurs. This is exempliﬁed by the exposure to ﬁre. Installation of ﬁre alarms and other precautions could reduce the expected loss substantially. Similarly, hedging with ﬁnancial futures is a method used to reduce the effect of interest rate movement on the proﬁts of the holding com- pany organization when the maturities of assets and liabilities are not equal. Recognition and Control of Exposure to Risk 2160.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2026 Page 2 The ﬁnal option management has, after risk has been evaluated, is simply not to participate in the activity if the risk is determined to be too high for the expected return. The inspection procedures should include a broad-based evaluation of parent level risk man- agement. Management’s effectiveness in identi- fying risk, its willingness to accept risk, and its ability to control risk should be regularly evalu- ated. In an environment of rapid change and emerging ﬁnancial instruments, there needs to be sufﬁcient expertise to recognize the existence of ‘‘new’’ sources of risk concentration to evalu- ate the company’s command of those sources. 2160.0.3 INSPECTION OBJECTIVES 1. To review the risk evaluation and control process. 2. To determine if management’s system of identifying risks is effective, and if the parent company is adequately informed of risks throughout the organization. 3. To determine management’s recognition of new risks that may arise from the changing environment. 4. To determine the reasonableness of the holding company’s exposure-risk ﬁgures. 5. To assess the effect on the holding com- pany’s ﬁnancial condition if the risk ﬁgures are realized. 6. To determine what actions are necessary to rebalance transactions of a holding company organization to a prudent level. 2160.0.4 INSPECTION PROCEDURES 1. Review the ﬁnancial condition and the operations of the holding company organization to detect substantive exposure-risk situations. 2. Review management’s policies, proce- dures, and practices in recognizing exposure- risk factors. 3. Determine awareness that all management levels need to be cognizant of exposures related to transactions of their respective operations. 4. Review the holding company’s exposure- risk ﬁgures, or constraints placed on types of transactions. 5. Discuss with management the signiﬁcance of exposure-risks facing the holding company and whether or not those risks are set at seem- ingly prudent levels. 6. Recommend that the organization address any areas where the holding company is per- ceived to have assumed an imprudent level of risk. Recognition and Control of Exposure to Risk 2160.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 Sale of Uninsured Annuities Section 2175.0 2175.0.1 INTRODUCTION Banking organizations have become increas- ingly involved in marketing third-party unin- sured annuities to their retail customers either directly or through third-party companies. As annuity sales have grown, so have concerns that some methods used to sell these instruments could give purchasers the impression that the annuities are federally insured deposits or that they are obligations of a bank. In the event of default by an annuities underwriter, this impres- sion could cause a loss of public conﬁdence in a depository institution, leading to unexpected withdrawals and liquidity pressures. Moreover, a bank or bank holding company that advertises or markets annuities in a way viewed as mis- leading could potentially be held liable for losses sustained by annuity holders. This manual section provides guidelines to examiners for reviewing the sale of uninsured annuities by bank holding companies and banks that have legal authority to act as agent in the sale of annuities. State member banks and bank holding companies should not market, sell, or issue uninsured annuities or allow third parties to market, sell, or issue uninsured annuities on depository-institution premises in a manner that conveys the impression or suggestion that such instruments are either (1) federally insured deposits or (2) obligations of or guaranteed by an insured depository institution. Consequently, state member banks should not sell these instru- ments at teller windows or other areas where retail deposits are routinely accepted. 2175.0.2 PERMISSIBILITY OF UNINSURED ANNUITY SALES The legal status of annuities under the Bank Holding Company Act is somewhat uncertain at the present time. The Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency has authorized national banks to act as agent in the sale of annuities on the basis that variable-rate annuities are securities and ﬁxed-rate annuities are ﬁnancial investment instruments. 1 These determinations, however, have been challenged by insurance associations on the basis that annuities are insurance prod- ucts and, therefore, may be sold by national banks only in a town of less than 5,000. 2 State member banks generally have been per- mitted to engage in the brokerage of both variable- and ﬁxed-rate annuities consistent with their general corporate powers. In order to engage in this activity without ﬁling a formal application, staff has advised interested banks that the brokerage of annuities must be expressly authorized under state law (or by the state banking regulatory agency on a case-by- case basis) and constitute an activity incidental to the bank’s banking activities. The authority of state member banks to con- tinue to engage in this activity, in the same manner and subject to the conditions discussed above, does not appear to depend on a resolu- tion of the issues. 3 State member banks have been permitted to engage in general insurance agency activities since 1937, 4 and to engage in brokerage activities under the same limitations applicable to bank holding companies. In addi- tion, the Board has determined that the nonbank- ing restrictions in the Bank Holding Company Act do not apply to the direct activities of banks owned by a bank holding company. 5 The authority of bank holding companies to engage directly or through a nonbanking subsid- iary in the sale of annuities has not yet been determined. In Norwest Corporation, 6 the Board considered a proposal by a nonbanking afﬁliate to engage in the sale of variable- and ﬁxed-rate annuities. The Board concluded that, under the speciﬁc facts of that case, it was unnecessary to reach the question of whether the sale of annui- ties is an insurance agency activity because Nor- west is one of a small number of bank holding companies entitled to act as agent in the 1. Interpretive Letter No. 331, April 4, 1985, reprinted in [1985–1987 Transfer Binder] Fed. Banking L. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 85,501; OCC Interpretive Letter No. 499 (February 12, 1990), reprinted in [1989–1990] Fed. Banking L. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 83,090. National banks are authorized to buy and sell securi- ties for the account of customers and broker ﬁnancial invest- ment instruments. 2. The V ariable Annuity Life Insurance Company v. Clarke, No. H-91-1016 (S.D. Tex. ﬁled Apr. 16, 1991) (‘‘NCNB litigation’’). 3. NCNB litigation. 4. Prior to 1937, the Board imposed as a condition of membership in the Federal Reserve System that a bank dis- continue all insurance activities other than insurance activities in a town of less than 5,000. The purpose of this restriction was to conform insurance activities allowed for state member banks to those allowed for national banks. 5. Merchants National Corp. , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 388 (1989), aff’d , 890 F.2d 1275 (2d Cir. 1989), cert. denied , 111 S. Ct. 44 (1990). 6. 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 873 (1990). BHC Supervision Manual June 1996 Page 1 sale of any type of insurance pursuant to Exemption G of the Garn Act. 7 2175.0.3 CHARACTERISTICS OF ANNUITY INSTRUMENTS An annuity is an investment from which a per- son receives periodic payments based on earlier payments made to the obligor. Annuities are commonly underwritten by insurance compa- nies, then marketed and sold either directly or through third parties, such as banks. Insurance companies retain the actuarial and underwriting risks on these annuities. Annuities may be either variable or ﬁxed- rate. An investor in a variable annuity contract purchases a share in an investment portfolio and then receives payments that vary according to the performance of the portfolio. A purchaser of a ﬁxed-rate annuity contract, in contrast, receives a ﬁxed-rate payment or minimum level of payments. Annuity payments can usually be received monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. Variable- and ﬁxed-rate annuities may be pur- chased in a single lump sum (‘‘single pre- mium’’) or in periodic contributions (‘‘ﬂexible premium’’). Minimum and maximum contribu- tions to annuities vary among vendors. Some single-premium annuities have ‘‘bail-out’’ fea- tures which allow holders to withdraw all funds if the rate of return on the annuity contract falls below a speciﬁed rate. The ability to take money out of an annuity prior to maturity varies by product, as does the imposition of a surrender penalty by the insurer when withdrawal occurs prior to maturity. When a penalty is imposed, the insurer generally cal- culates the penalty as a percentage of the annu- ity product’s accumulated value. The penalty for withdrawal generally declines with the annuity’s age. Normally, funds may not be with- drawn prior to the ﬁrst anniversary date of the annuity. 8 Annuities sold at depository institutions often include rate guarantees over the life of the instrument. They also frequently mature in one, three, or ﬁve years, similar to maturity ranges on certiﬁcates of deposit. Insurance companies arrange for the sale of annuities on the premises of depository institu- tions in different ways. Some insurance compa- nies approach banks directly. At other times, wholesalers (who market the products of a number of different insurance companies) may approach a bank. Depending on state restric- tions on insurance activities, sales might be conducted by bank employees, employees of bank subsidiary insurance agencies, or by third- party insurance agents leasing space on the bank’s premises. Sales commissions on annuities vary by the type of annuity. Commissions earned on single- premium products generally vary from 4 percent to 6 percent, but they decline sharply when the product sold includes a ‘‘bail-out’’ provision. Wholesalers may also give retailers a commis- sion when the annuity is renewed, based on the accumulated value of the annuity. Commissions in some instances are paid on a variable basis, rising as the volume of sales increases. 2175.0.4 IMPROPER MARKETING PRACTICES Banks have become involved in the sale of uninsured annuities through marketing programs designed to appeal speciﬁcally to their retail customers. It is important that these programs not employ marketing practices that could mis- lead the bank’s customers. For example, the use in annuities advertisements of terms such as ‘‘CD,’’ ‘‘deposit,’’ and ‘‘interest plan’’ to imply that the instruments are insured deposits would be inappropriate. Also, advertisements that prominently display the bank’s name and logo in a way that suggests the product is an obliga- tion of the bank are similarly inappropriate. Disclosure that the annuities are not federally insured and are not obligations of the bank should be displayed prominently in annuity con- tracts and related documentation, on printed 7. The Garn Act amended section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act to prohibit generally bank holding companies from engaging in insurance activities as a princi- pal, agent, or broker with certain exceptions. Under the express language of the Garn Act, the sale of insurance is not ‘‘closely related to banking’’ and is not permissible for a bank holding company unless it qualiﬁes under one of the seven speciﬁed exceptions (Exemptions A–G) in the Garn Act. Exemption G applies to a limited number of bank holding companies that received approval from the Board prior to January 1, 1971, to conduct insurance agency activities. In order to utilize Exemption G or any other Garn Act exemp- tions that may be applicable, the bank holding company must ﬁle an application and would be subject to the proposed restrictions through the application process. 8. If an investor withdraws tax-deferred income from an annuity before the investor is 59 1⁄2 years old, the IRS levies a tax penalty on the person equal to 10 percent of the amount of tax-deferred income withdrawn. This penalty may be avoided only if the person reinvests annuity proceeds in another tax- deferred investment within 60 days of the withdrawal. Sale of Uninsured Annuities 2175.0 BHC Supervision Manual June 1996 Page 2 advices, and verbally emphasized in telemarket- ing contacts. Finally, personnel selling unin- sured annuities should be distinguishable from bank employees conducting normal retail deposit-taking operations. 2175.0.5 INSPECTION OBJECTIVES 1. To review the marketing and sale of unin- sured annuities sold by the bank holding com- pany and its member banks, or those sold through a third party. 2. To determine whether the bank holding company and its banks have adequate policies and procedures in place and if they are moni- tored by the parent company. 3. To determine if, prior to agreeing to sell annuities, a comprehensive ﬁnancial analysis is made of the ﬁnancial condition of the annuities underwriter and whether products of only ﬁnan- cially secure underwriters are sold. 4. To determine whether the contract and advertising and related documents disclose prominently that the annuities do not represent deposits or obligations of an insured depository institution and that they are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 5. To ascertain that annuities are not sold at teller windows or other areas where deposits are routinely accepted. 2175.0.6 INSPECTION PROCEDURES 1. Determine whether the bank holding com- pany and its banks have adequate policies and procedures in place: a. to assess the ﬁnancial condition of the annuities underwriter; Banking organizations engaged in the sale of annuities are expected to sell only prod- ucts of ﬁnancially secure underwriters. Prior to agreeing to sell annuities, a comprehensive ﬁnancial analysis of the obligor should be per- formed and reviewed with the banking organiza- tion’s directors. The policies should also include a program to evaluate the underwriter’s ﬁnan- cial condition at least annually and to review the credit ratings assigned to the underwriter by the independent agencies evaluating annuity underwriters. b. to ensure that the marketing and sale of uninsured annuities is not misleading and is separated and distinguished from routine retail deposit-taking activities. (1) With regard to the sale of annuities, determine whether the contract, advertising, and all related documents disclose prominently in bold print that the annuities: (a) are not deposits or obligations of an insured depository institution; and (b) are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. (2) State member banks should not sell annuity instruments at teller windows or other areas where retail deposits are routinely accepted. In assessing the adequacy of disclo- sures and the separation of the marketing and sale of uninsured annuities from the retail deposit-taking function, examiners should take into account whether: (a) advertisements do not contain words, such as ‘‘deposit’’, ‘‘CD’’, etc., or a logo that could lead an investor to believe an annuity is an insured deposit instrument; (b) the obligor of the annuity contract is prominently disclosed, and names or logos of the insured depository institution are not used in a way that might suggest the insured depository institution is the obligor; (c) adequate verbal disclosures are made during telemarketing contacts and at the time of sale; (d) retail deposit-taking employees of the insured depository institution are not engaged in the promotion or sale of uninsured annuities; (e) information on uninsured annui- ties is not contained in retail deposit statements of customers or in the immediate retail deposit- taking area; (f) account information on annuities owned by customers is not included on insured deposit statements; and (g) ofﬁcer or employee remuneration associated with selling annuities is limited to reasonable levels in relation to the individual’s salary. (3) If a bank allows a third-party entity to market annuities on depository institution premises, examiners should take into account whether: (a) the depository institution has assured itself that the third-party company is properly registered or licensed to conduct this activity; (b) depository institution personnel are not involved in sales activities conducted by the third party; Sale of Uninsured Annuities 2175.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 (c) desks or ofﬁces are not used to market or sell annuities, are separate and dis- tinctly identiﬁed as being used by an outside party; and (d) depository institution personnel do not normally use desks or ofﬁces used by a third party for annuities sales. 2. Determine that advertisements do not prominently display the bank’s name and logo that suggests the product is an obligation of a BHC bank. 3. Determine whether the banks obtain a signed statement from the customer indicating that the customer understands that the annuity is not a deposit or any other obligation of the depository institution, that the depository insti- tution is only acting as an agent for the insur- ance company (underwriter), and that the annu- ity is not FDIC insured. Sale of Uninsured Annuities 2175.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 4 Support of Bank-Afﬁliated Investment Funds Section 2178.0 On January 5, 2004, the federal banking and thrift agencies (the agencies) issued an inter- agency policy to alert banking organizations, including their boards of directors and senior management, of the safety-and-soundness implications of and the legal impediments to a bank providing ﬁnancial support to investment funds advised by the bank, its subsidiaries, or afﬁliates (that is, afﬁliated investment funds). 1 A banking organization’s investment advisory ser- vices can pose material risks to the bank’s liquidity, earnings, capital, and reputation and can harm investors, if the associated risks are not effectively controlled. In addition, bank- afﬁliated investment advisers are encouraged to establish alternative sources of ﬁnancial support to avoid seeking support from afﬁliated banks. (See SR letter 04-1, “Interagency Policy on Banks/Thrifts Providing Financial Support to Funds Advised by the Banking Organization,” and SR letter 94-53, “Investment Adviser Activities.”) Banks are under no statutory requirement to provide ﬁnancial support to the funds they advise; however, circumstances may motivate banks to do so for reasons of reputation risk and liability mitigation. This type of support by banking organizations to funds they advise includes credit extensions, cash infusions, asset purchases, and the acquisition of fund shares. In very limited circumstances, certain arrange- ments between banks and the funds they advise have been expressly determined to be legally permissible and safe and sound when properly conducted and managed. However, the agencies are concerned about other occasions when emer- gency liquidity needs may prompt banks to sup- port their advised funds in ways that raise pru- dential and legal concerns. Federal laws and regulations place signiﬁcant restrictions on transactions between banks and their advised funds. In particular, sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Board’s Regula- tion W (12 CFR part 223) place quantitative limits and collateral and market-terms require- ments on many transactions between a bank and certain of its advised funds. 2178.0.1 POLICY ON BANKS PROVIDING FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO ADVISED FUNDS To avoid engaging in unsafe and unsound bank- ing practices, banks should adopt appropriate policies and procedures governing routine or emergency transactions with bank-advised investment funds. 2 Such policies and procedures should be designed to ensure that the bank will not (1) inappropriately place its resources and reputation at risk for the beneﬁt of the funds’ investors and creditors; (2) violate the limits and requirements contained in sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, other applicable legal requirements, or any spe- cial supervisory condition imposed by the agen- cies; or (3) create an expectation that the bank will prop up the advised fund. Further, the agen- cies expect banking organizations to maintain appropriate controls over investment advisory activities that include: • Establishing alternative sources of emergency support from the parent holding company, nonbank afﬁliates, or external third parties prior to seeking support from the bank. • Instituting effective policies and procedures for identifying potential circumstances trig- gering the need for ﬁnancial support and the process for obtaining such support. In the 1. The federal banking and thrift agencies include the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), the Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Ofﬁce of Thrift Supervision (OTS). Title III of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) abolished the OTS, which had been responsible for regulating state and federal savings associations and their holding companies. See 12 USC 5413 (Dodd-Frank Act 313). The OTS’s functions and powers were transferred to the OCC, FDIC, and the Board. The Board acquired regulatory and rulemaking authority over savings and loan holding com- panies. See 12 USC 5412 (Dodd-Frank Act 312). The OCC acquired supervisory and rulemaking authority over federal savings associations. The FDIC acquired supervisory and rulemaking authority over state-chartered savings associa- tions. Bank-advised investment funds include mutual funds, alternative strategy funds, collective investment funds, and other funds where the bank, its subsidiaries, or afﬁliates is the investment adviser and receives a fee for its investment advice. For purposes of the guidance, “banks” includes banks and savings associations. Bank-advised investment funds include mutual funds, alter- native strategy funds, collective investment funds, and other funds where the bank, its subsidiaries, or afﬁliates is the investment adviser and receives a fee for its investment advice. For purposes of the guidance, “banks” includes banks and savings associations. 2. For more information on examination objectives and procedures in reviewing banks providing ﬁnancial support to advised funds, see the appropriate “Investment-Funds Sup- port” sections of the Commercial Bank Examination Manual . BHC Supervision Manual February 2019 Page 1 limited instances that the bank provides ﬁnan- cial support, the bank’s procedures should include an oversight process that requires for- mal approval from the bank’s board of direc- tors, or an appropriate board-designated com- mittee, independent of the investment advisory function. The bank’s audit commit- tee also should review the transaction to ensure that appropriate policies and proce- dures were followed. • Implementing an effective risk-management system for controlling and monitoring risks posed to the bank by the organization’s invest- ment advisory activities. Risk controls should include establishing appropriate risk limits, liquidity planning, performance measurement systems, stress testing, compliance reviews, and management reporting to mitigate the need for signiﬁcant bank support. • Implementing policies and procedures that ensure that the bank is in compliance with existing disclosure and advertising require- ments to clearly differentiate the investments in advised funds from obligations of the bank or insured deposits. • Ensuring proper regulatory reporting of con- tingent liabilities arising out of its investment advisory activities in the banking organiza- tion’s published ﬁnancial statements in accor- dance with Accounting Standards Codiﬁca- tion (ASC) subtopic 450-20, Contingencies: Loss Contingencies, and ﬁduciary settlements, surcharges, and other losses arising out of its investment advisory activities in accordance with the instructions for completing Call Report Schedule RC-T (Fiduciary and Related Services). 2178.0.2 NOTIFICA TION AND CONSULTA TION WITH THE PRIMARY FEDERAL REGULA TOR Because of the potential risks posed by the provision of ﬁnancial support to advised funds, bank management should notify and consult with its appropriate federal banking agency prior to the bank providing material ﬁnancial support to its advised funds. The appropriate federal banking agency will closely scrutinize the cir- cumstances surrounding the transaction and will address situations that raise supervisory con- cerns. Support of Bank-Afﬁliated Investment Funds 2178.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2019 Page 2 Securities Activities in Overseas Markets Section 2180.0 Existing regulations permit banks and bank holding companies to engage in a wide range of securities activities in overseas markets. For a number of years these activities were not con- sidered to be signiﬁcant in the context of total bank and bank holding company assets. Indig- enous rules and market practice served to con- strain to a degree securities activities of U.S. banking organizations overseas. Changes in local rules now make it possible for members of the London stock exchange to be wholly-owned by non-member companies and by year-end 1986 will allow stockbrokers to act as principals or market makers in securities. These new rules are expected to change signiﬁ- cantly the complexion of the London securities market. In this context, U.S. banking organiza- tions are making substantial investments in U.K. securities ﬁrms, and are also signiﬁcantly expanding their securities business in other for- eign and international markets. The Board has expressed its concerns, in con- nection with an application by a banking organi- zation to expand its securities activities over- seas, that proper safeguards, limits, and controls will be exercised to protect the organization from undue risk. Applications generally state the methods through which the banking organi- zation plans to control risk and establish over- sight over securities operations. While these safeguards are initially evaluated at the time the application is made, nevertheless, examinations of bank holding companies and Edge corpora- tions should incorporate an assessment of all overseas securities activities in order to deter- mine the degree to which these activities con- form to high standards of banking and ﬁnancial prudence. The afﬁliation of a securities com- pany, especially one engaged in corporate debt and equities transactions, with a banking organi- zation raises a potential for conﬂict of interest and in some cases could pose substantial addi- tional risk to the institution. In those U.S. banking organizations where overseas securities trading and brokering are signiﬁcant in scope or are prominent in the scale of the local market, examination procedures must incorporate an assessment of the controls, limits, and safeguards implemented by the orga- nization to monitor and contain risk. Securities activities should be subject to the same degree of scrutiny and rigorous assessment of risk as bank lending activities. In addition, examiners should monitor the substance and nature of all transactions. In particular, the following kinds of activities should be reviewed to determine whether they raise considerations of safety and soundness or otherwise do not conform to standards of pru- dence required of U.S. banking organizations: • The degree of lending by a bank holding company to its securities afﬁliate, especially when loans are extended to support or enhance the obligations underwritten by the securities afﬁliate; • The extent to which securities underwritten by an afﬁliate are purchased by the bank hold- ing company as principal or trustee; and, • The extent to which the parent is liable to an exchange for any losses incurred by the afﬁli- ate due to failure to deliver securities or settle contracts. BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 Violations of Federal Reserve Margin Regulations Resulting from “Free-Riding” Schemes Section 2187.0 Targeted examinations and investigations by the Federal Reserve and the Enforcement Division of the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as court actions, have found banks in violation of Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stock, (12 C.F.R. 221) when their trust depart- ments, using bank or other ﬁduciary funds, have extended credit to individuals involved in illegal day trading or free-riding schemes. These activi- ties also involved the aiding and abetting of violations of two other securities credit regula- tions: Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Deal- ers (12 C.F.R. 220), and Regulation X, Borrow- ers of Securities Credit, (12 C.F.R. 224). Day trading and free-riding schemes involve the purchase and sale of stock on the same day (or within a very short period of time) and the funding of the purchases with the proceeds of the sale. Banking organizations 1 engaging in such illegal activities may subject themselves to disciplinary proceedings, as well as to substan- tial credit risk. Federal Reserve examiners should ensure that banks and bank holding companies (including the broker-dealer and trust activities of banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of state member banks and bank holding companies) are not engaged in such illegal activities. Examiners must make certain that these entities have taken all steps necessary to prevent their customers from involving them in free-riding. Prompt enforcement action may be needed to eliminate free-riding activities. (See SR-93-13.) 2187.0.1 TYPICAL DA Y TRADING OR FREE-RIDING ACTIVITIES The free-riding conduct in question typically involves trading large amounts of securities without depositing the necessary money or appropriate collateral in their customer accounts. The customer seeks to free-ride, that is, purchase and sell the same securities and pay for the purchase with the proceeds of the sale. Often, free-riding schemes involve initial public offerings because broker-dealers are prohibited from ﬁnancing these new issues. If the money to pay for the securities is not in the account when the securities are delivered in a delivery-versus- payment (DVP) transaction, a bank that permits completion of the transaction creates a tempo- rary overdraft in the customer’s account. This overdraft is an extension of credit that subjects the banks to Regulation U. The typical free-riding scheme involves a new customer’s opening a custodial agency account into which a number of broker-dealers will deliver securities or funds in DVP transac- tions. Although a deposit may be made into the custodial agency account, the amount of trading is greatly in excess of the original deposit, caus- ing the ﬁnancial institution to extend its own credit to meet the payment and delivery obliga- tions of the account. Therefore, although the ﬁnancial institution may be earning fees as a result of the activity in these accounts, it is subjecting itself to substantial losses if the mar- ket prices for the purchased securities fall or the transactions otherwise fail. In addition, other liabilities under federal banking and securities laws may be involved. 2187.0.2 SECURITIES CREDIT REGULA TIONS 2187.0.2.1 Regulation U, Credit by Banks or Persons Other Than Brokers or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks Any extension of credit in the course of settling customer securities transactions, including those occuring in a trust department or trust subsidi- ary of a bank holding company, must comply with all of the provisions of Regulation U. 2 Regulation U requires all extensions of credit for the purpose of buying or carrying margin1. The use of the term ‘‘banking organization’’ in this section, with regard to Regulation U, means a bank, trust department of a bank, or trust company of a bank holding company that is subject to Regulation U. Regulation U includes any nondealer nonbank subsidiary of a bank holding company that extends purpose credit by margin stock. With regard to Regulation T, it refers to any nonbank company that conducts broker-dealer activities. 2. For purposes of the regulation, the deﬁnition of ‘‘bank’’ speciﬁcally includes institutions ‘‘exercising ﬁduciary pow- ers.’’ (See 12 C.F.R. 221.2, 15 U.S.C. 78(c)(a)(6), and Federal Reserve Regulatory Service at 5–795 (1946).) When used in discussing a bank’s trust department or any other type of ﬁnancial institution exercising ﬁduciary powers, the term ‘‘extension of credit’’ includes overdrafts in settling cus- tomer’s accounts that may be covered by advances from the banking organization, from other ﬁduciary customers, or from a combination of both. BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 1 stock that are secured by margin stock to be within the 50 percent limit. To avoid violations of the Board’s securities credit regulations, on settlement date, the customer’s account must hold sufﬁcient funds, excluding the proceeds of the sale of the security, to pay for each security purchased. Although Regulation U applies only to transactions in margin stock, free-riding in nonmargin stocks in custodial agency accounts could result in a banking organization’s aiding and abetting violations of Regulations T and X and other securities laws, and could raise ﬁnan- cial safety-and-soundness issues. 2187.0.2.2 Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, and Regulation X, Borrowers of Securities Credit Because the custodial agency accounts are used to settle transactions effected by the customer at broker-dealers, a banking organization that opens this type of account should have some general understanding of how Regulation T restricts the customer’s use of the account at the institution. Regulation T requires the use of a cash account for customer purchases or sales on a DVP basis. Section 220.8(a) of Regulation T speciﬁes that cash-account transactions are predicated on the customer’s agreement that the customer will make full cash payment for secu- rities before selling them and does not intend to sell them before making such payment. There- fore, free-riding is prohibited in a cash account. A customer who instructs his or her agent ﬁnan- cial institution to pay for a security by relying on the proceeds of the sale of that security in a DVP transaction is causing, or aiding or abet- ting, the broker-dealer to violate the credit restrictions of Regulation T. Regulation X, which generally prohibits borrowers from will- fully causing credit to be extended in violation of Regulations T or U, also applies to the cus- tomer in such cases. As described above, banking organizations 3 involved in customer free-riding schemes may be aiding and abetting violations of Regulation T by the broker-dealers who deliver securities or funds to the banking organization’s custom- ers’ accounts. As long as a ﬁnancial institution uses its funds to complete a customer’s transac- tions, broker-dealers may not discover that they are selling securities to the customer in violation of Regulation T. A similar aiding and abetting violation of Regulation X could occur if a cus- tomer used the ﬁnancial institution to induce a broker-dealer to violate Regulation T. 2187.0.3 NEW-CUSTOMER INQUIRIES AND W ARNING SIGNALS Examiners should make certain that all banks and other ﬁnancial-institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company are administering and following appropriate written policies and pro- cedures concerning the establishment of custo- dial agency accounts or any new account involv- ing customer securities transactions. Such policies and procedures should address, among other things, ways an institution can protect itself against free-riding schemes. One way is to obtain adequate background and credit informa- tion from new clients, including whether the customer intends to obtain credit to use with the account. This type of activity requires more extensive monitoring than the typical DVP account in which no credit is extended. It would be prudent to inquire why a new customer is not using the margin-account services of its broker- dealers. If the account is to be used as a margin account, a ﬁnancial institution must obtain Form FR U-1 from the customer and must sign and constantly update the form. The ﬁnancial institution should obtain from the customer a list of broker-dealers that will be sending securities to or receiving funds from the account in DVP transactions. If a number of broker-dealers may be used, the institution should obtain from the customer a written state- ment that all transactions with the broker-dealer will conform with Regulations T and X and that the customer is aware that a security purchased in a cash account is not to be sold until it is paid for. Similarly, when obtaining instructions for settling DVP transactions for a customer, the ﬁnancial institution should clarify that it will not rely upon the proceeds from the sale of those securities to pay for the purchase of the same securities. 2187.0.4 SCOPE OF THE INSPECTION FOR FREE-RIDING ACTIVITIES Examiners, bank holding companies, state mem- ber banks, and ﬁnancial-institution and trust subsidiaries owned by bank holding companies (also U.S. branches and agencies of foreign 3. For a discussion of Regulation T as it applies to a bank holding company’s broker-dealer nonbank subsidiary, see sec- tion 3230.0. Violations of Federal Reserve Margin Regulations Resulting from “Free-Riding” Schemes 2187.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 2 banks exercising trust powers) should ensure that their banking organizations monitor accounts closely for an initial period to detect patterns typical of free-riding, including intra- day overdrafts, and to ensure that sufﬁcient funds or margin collateral are on deposit at all times. Frequent transactions in securities being offered in an initial public offering may suggest an avoidance of Regulations T and X. If it appears that a customer is attempting to free- ride, the ﬁnancial institution should immedi- ately alert the broker-dealers involved in trans- ferring securities and take steps to minimize its own credit risk and legal liability. At a minimum, examiners should also evalu- ate a trust institution’s ability to ensure that it does not extend to a customer more credit on behalf of a bank or other ﬁnancial institution than is permitted under Regulation U. If there are any questions in this regard, examiners should consult with their Reserve Bank’s trust examiners. Any overdraft that is related to a purchase or sale of margin stock, and that is secured by margin stock, is an extension of credit subject to the regulation, including over- drafts that are outstanding for less than a day. Board staff have published a number of opin- ions discussing the application of Regulation U to various transactions relating to free-riding. Free-riding violations that could endanger the banking organization (for example, fraudulent activities that could subject the organization to losses or lawsuits), as well as signiﬁcant viola- tions that were previously noted but have not yet been corrected, should be noted in the inspection report. Violations of the Board’s Regulation T, U, or X, as applicable to the inspection, should be reported on the Examin- er’s Comments and Violations report pages. The report should discuss what action has or will be taken to correct those violations. 2187.0.5 SEC AND FEDERAL RESERVE SANCTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS The SEC, in exercising its broad authority to enforce the Board’s securities credit regulations, requires banks to (1) establish credit compliance committees to formulate written policies and procedures concerning the extension of purpose credit in their securities-clearance business, (2) establish training programs for bank person- nel responsible for the conduct of their securities-clearance business, and (3) submit to outside audits to verify their compliance with the conditions of injunctions. The Board may also institute enforcement proceedings against the banking organizations it supervises and against any institution-afﬁliated parties involved in these activities, including cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalty assessments, and removal and permanent-prohibition actions. 2187.0.6 INSPECTION OBJECTIVES 1. To make certain that policies of the bank holding company’s board, and the supervi- sory operating procedures, internal controls, and audit procedures will ensure, in the course of settling customers’ securities transactions— a. that bank extensions of credit within the holding company comply with the provi- sions of Regulation U (including the requirement that initial extensions of credit that are secured by margin stock are within the initial 50 percent margin limit) and b. that customer accounts hold sufﬁcient funds on the settlement date for each secu- rity purchased. 2. To determine— a. whether the banking organizations of the bank holding company can adequately monitor compliance with Regulation U through systems of internal controls, train- ing, and compliance procedures (i.e., use of credit compliance committees) that address free-riding activities within the ‘‘back-ofﬁce function’’ 4 and b. whether noncompliance is properly reported. 3. To initiate corrective action when policies, practices, procedures, or internal controls are not sufﬁcient to prevent free-riding schemes, and when violations of the Board’s regula- tions have been noted by bank examiners or self-regulatory organizations. 2187.0.7 INSPECTION PROCEDURES 1. Review the bank holding company’s board of directors’ policies for its banking institu- tion subsidiaries regarding supervisory operational policies, procedures, and internal controls for loans extended for the purpose 4. Refers to the movement of cash and securities relating to trades and to the processing and recording of trades. This process is also called the ‘‘securities-clearance cycle.’’ Violations of Federal Reserve Margin Regulations Resulting from “Free-Riding” Schemes 2187.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 3 of buying or carrying margin stock and secured directly or indirectly by margin stock. a. Determine whether the policies require, for each extension of credit not speciﬁ- cally exempted under Regulation U, that a Form FR U-1 be executed and signed by the customer and accepted and signed by a duly authorized ofﬁcer of the banking organization acting in good faith. b. Determine whether the policies limit extensions of credit to no more than the maximum allowed loan value of the col- lateral, as set by section 221.7 of Regula- tion U, and whether those policies require adherence to margin requirements. 2. Review the bank holding company’s board of directors’ credit policies and operating policies, internal controls, and internal audit procedures to determine if they provide adequate safeguards against customers’ free- riding practices. In so doing— a. determine if new-customer accounts are required to be approved by appropriate personnel; and b. establish whether the bank holding com- pany’s credit-system policies require— • controlling securities positions and ﬁnancial-instrument contracts that serve as collateral for loans; • monitoring established restrictions and limits placed on the amounts and types of transactions to be executed with each customer and the dollar amounts placed on unsettled trades; • obtaining appropriate documentation consisting of essential facts pertaining to each customer, and in particular, ﬁnancial information evidencing the customer’s ability to pay for ordered securities, repay extensions of credit, and meet other ﬁnancial commitments; • monitoring the location of all collateral; • ensuring that there are no overdrawn margin accounts; and • monitoring the status of failed transac- tions for the purpose of detecting free- riding schemes. 3. Determine if the bank holding company’s audit committee or its internal or external auditors are required to review a selected random sample of individual or custodial agency accounts for customer free-riding activities. 2187.0.8 LAWS, REGULA TIONS, INTERPRETA TIONS, AND ORDERS Subject Laws 1 Regulations 2 Interpretations 3 Orders Credit by brokers and dealers 220 (Reg. T) Regulation U, Credit by Banks or Persons Other Than Brokers or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks 221 (Reg. U) Purpose credit— delivery-versus- payment transactions 5–942.15, 5–942.18, 5–942.2, 5–942.21, 5–942.22 Borrowers of securities credit 224 (Reg. X) 1. 12 U.S.C., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 2. 12 C.F.R., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 3. Federal Reserve Regulatory Service reference. Violations of Federal Reserve Margin Regulations Resulting from “Free-Riding” Schemes 2187.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1998 Page 4 Note Issuance and Revolving Underwriting Credit Facilities Section 2220.3 2220.3.1 NOTE ISSUANCE FACILITY (NIF) One type of off-balance-sheet activity is the note issuance facility (NIF). The ﬁrst public facility was arranged in 1981. A NIF is a medium-term arrangement under which a bor- rower can issue short-term paper. The paper is issued on a revolving basis, with maturities ranging from as low as 7 days to up to one year. Underwriters are committed either to purchas- ing any unsold notes or to providing standby credit. Bank borrowing usually involves com- mercial paper consisting of short-term certiﬁ- cates of deposit and for nonbank borrowers it would generally be promissory notes (Euro- notes). NIF is the most common term used for this type of arrangement. Other terms include the revolving underwriting facility (RUF), and the standby note issuance facility (SNIF). NIFs, RUFs, and SNIFs are essentially the same credit product. The NIF is usually structured for 5 to 7 years. Euronotes are denominated in US dollars and are issued with high face values (often $500,000 or more), being intended for the more sophisti- cated investor (professional or institutional investors). Holders of the notes show them as an asset on their balance sheets. The underwriting commitment represents an off-balance sheet item. The NIF allows the various functions per- formed by a single institution in a syndicated credit to be separated and performed by differ- ent institutions. Instead of lending money, as in a syndicated credit, the NIF arranger provides a mechanism for placing notes with other investors when funds are needed. The underwriting commit- ment transforms the maturity, assuring the bor- rower access to short-term funds over the medium term, which remains off-balance sheet, unless drawn upon. The underwriters take the short-term credit risk since they face the risk of lending to a borrower that has difﬁculty in obtaining full conﬁdence from investors. NIFs can be arranged with an issuer-set mar- gin whereby the issuer determines the margin over LIBOR (the London Interbank Offered Rate), or some other index at which notes will be offered. The issuer thus beneﬁts from any improvement in market conditions. The notes are placed by the placing agent, but senior underwriters have the option of purchasing a prearranged share of any notes issued. Any notes not taken up at the issuer-set margin are distributed to underwriters at the pre- estab- lished maximum (cap) rate. 2220.3.2 REVOL VING UNDERWRITING FACILITY (RUF) Another type of facility, a revolving underwrit- ing facility (RUF), was introduced in 1982. A revolving underwriting facility is a medium- term revolving commitment to guarantee the overseas sale of short-term negotiable promis- sory notes (usually a ﬁxed-spread over LIBOR) issued by the borrower at or below a predeter- mined interest rate. RUFs separate the roles of the medium-term risk-taker and the providers of the funding (the short-term investors). RUFs and NIFs allow access to capital sources at interest rates considerably below conventional ﬁnancing rates. The savings in interest cost are derived because the borrower obtains the lower interest costs prevailing in the short-term mar- kets, while still retaining the security of longer term ﬁnancing commitments. The notes issued under RUFs are attractive for institutional inves- tors since they permit greater diversiﬁcation of risk than the certiﬁcates of deposit of only one bank. Underwriters favor them because their commitments do not appear on the statement of ﬁnancial condition. RUFs are usually structured for periods of four to seven years. A revolving underwriting facility (RUF) dif- fers from a (NIF) in that it separates the func- tions of underwriting and distribution. With a RUF, the lead bank (manager or arranger) acts as the only placing agent. The arranger retains total control over the placing of the notes. The lead bank provides assistance to a borrower who forms a lending group of banks. The borrower, assisted by a lead bank (arranger), obtains a medium term revolving commitment that guar- antees the sale of short-term negotiable promis- sory notes at or below a pre-determined interest rate. The participating group of banks arrange the funding, subject to certain lending condi- tions and rates, for the duration of the facility. In return, the borrower pays a facility fee to the revolving credit banks. BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 When the borrower desires funds, a place- ment agent or tender panel 1 places short-term notes with other banks and institutional inves- tors (usually having maturities of 90 days, 180 days or 12 months). The short term notes can be issued to these investors at signiﬁcantly lower interest rates than would be available from a revolving credit facility that the same banks would have been willing to provide. The note purchasers generally have a rollover option at maturity and new note purchasers are added as needed. The note purchasers bear the risk of loss in the event of default by the borrower. New note purchasers are added as needed. In the event the full line of credit is not placed with the note purchasers on any rollover date, the revolv- ing credit banks must make funding available for the difference at the previously committed revolving credit interest rates, subject to the terms and conditions within the agreement. With the RUF, and the use of a sole placing agent, the underwriters are not assured of secur- ing any notes that they could place themselves nor can they beneﬁt from any improvement in terms available in the market. The hindrance is removed by the use of NIFs with an issuer-set margin whereby the issuer determines the mar- gin over an index at which notes will be offered. Another form of a RUF is a transferable revolving underwriting facility (TRUF). With this arrangement the underwriter is able, with the borrower’s approval, to transfer all rights and obligations under the underwriting commit- ment to another institution at any time during the life of the facility. 2220.3.3 RISK The loan commitments involved in NIF and RUF transactions contain substantially the same terms as other loan commitments extended to similar borrowers. The failure of the borrower to satisfy the revolving standby agreement relieves the banks of any obligation to fund the transaction. The major source of risk is thus the liquidity risk that is derived from the uncer- tainty of the timing or amount of required fund- ing. If the underlying notes cannot be marketed at or below the interest rate speciﬁed in the agreement, the bank would need to discount the notes to whatever rate would be necessary to make the notes attractive to investors, perhaps taking an up-front loss to avoid funding a low margin loan. NIFs and RUFs involve less credit risk than extensions of credit because of the additional step that is required before funding takes place, a step that is not present with a revolving credit agreement. In other words, no funding is required until: (1) a decision is made by the borrower to issue notes; and (2) the placing agent becomes unable to place the short-term notes with short-term investors. Further, the risk of loss rests with the note investors. The under- writer’s risk of nonpayment is not present until the rollover date. If there has been a signiﬁcant deterioration in the issuer/borrower’s ﬁnancial condition on that date, the issuer/borrower may be prevented from drawing under the facility. This would be dependent on the funding condi- tions or the cancellation provisions stipulated in the agreement. 2220.3.4 PRICING AND FEES The forms of compensation involving a NIF and RUF are: the underwriting and commitment fee; the one-time arrangement fee, and the periodic placement fees. An annual ﬁxed underwriting fee is paid by the borrower on the amount of underlying commitment. This fee must be paid regardless of the frequency of usage of the facility or whether or not the underwriters are required to make any purchases of the short- term paper. This compensation is for the com- mitment to underwrite the issuance of the notes. The arranger receives a one-time arrangement fee based on a percentage of the amount of the facility. The issuer pays the borrowing costs on the notes issued, usually at a spread above or below an index. A portion of this borrowing fee is retained by the placement agent or the tender panel members as compensation for placing the paper. Competitive pricing on NIFs and RUFS causes them to be very thinly margined. Com- mitment fees may be as low as 5 basis points for blue chip customers, while ‘‘BBB’’ credit-rated or equivalent borrowers might be charged as much as 20 basis points. Because of the thin spread some banks may only be serving as an 1. The tender panel was introduced in 1983. It is usually made up of several commercial investment banks and other institutional investors. The panel members bid for any notes issued, up to a predetermined maximum spread. The revolv- ing credit banks can bid as part of the tender panel, but they are not required to do so. Any notes not bid for are purchased by the revolving credit banks or they extend credit of an equal amount. The tender panel may be a continuous tender panel whereby the underwriters are entitled to purchase notes from the lead manager up to their pro rata share at any time during the offer period, if available, at the market price. Note Issuance and Revolving Underwriting Credit Facilities 2220.3 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 2 arranger, preferring to not participate in the mar- ket. Typical fees for this service may consist of: an up-front arrangement fee of 20 basis points on the total principal amount of the facility, and an annual placement fee such as 12.5 basis points on the short-term notes sold. Revolving credit banks usually receive facility fees and annual maintenance fees. If the underwriters have to purchase the notes, the backup rate of interest may be the index plus 10 to 15 basis points for blue chip companies to plus 37.5 basis points over the index for ‘‘BBB’’ rated borrowers. The interest rates charged (if funded) are usually lower because of market- pricing conventions (lower spreads) and the intense competition within the market. 2220.3.5 STANDBY RUFS Some RUFS may provide for a utilization fee or may provide for a higher yield on the notes in the event that more than a nominal amount of paper is allocated to the underwriters. Such a provision would more likely be found in a standby facility. Standby facilities are backup commitments under which notes are not expected to be issued. This provision essentially protects the underwriter from having to book loans that are earning an insufﬁcient yield. The structure of the facility generally determines its pricing depending upon the requirements of the issuer/borrower. Standby RUFs substitute for committed bank lines which may be used, for example, as backup commitments for issuance of U.S. com- mercial paper. Commitment fees will be low because of the low probability that funds will need to be advanced. A standby facility will make borrowing from the underwriter very expensive in relation to what the issuer might have to pay. Otherwise, the underlying notes are issued on a regular basis, the maximum yield on the notes is set to approximate the normal mar- ket level for the issuer’s short term borrowing- s.This facility would have a higher underwriting fee than a standby facility, because the regular issuances of notes increase the likelihood that the underwriting bank will have to purchase notes that cannot be placed. 2220.3.6 RUF DOCUMENTS The revolving credit agreement is the primary document in a RUF. It includes the principal agreement of the transaction, executed by the revolving credit banks and the borrower. It con- tains the terms and conditions under which the borrower can draw on the facility. The docu- ment includes the ﬁnancial covenants and events of default. An agency agreement between the borrower and the placement agent designates the place- ment agent for the notes and sets forth the conditions of the agent’s obligations for arrang- ing the sale of the notes. Included are represen- tations and warranties of the borrower regarding the authority to enter into the agreement and to issue the notes. A description of the terms and conditions of the facility is contained within an information memorandum. Detail is provided with regard to the use of the proceeds, current and historical ﬁnancial information, a description of the company, its ﬁnances and operations. It is dis- tributed to prospective credit banks and note purchasers. The note is the last document involving a RUF. Usually the notes will be unsecured obli- gations of the borrower and will include rep- resentations and warranties of the company regarding authorization and the absence of material litigation and bankruptcy proceedings. It will also contain a statement that a revolving credit facility is available to the borrower. Note Issuance and Revolving Underwriting Credit Facilities 2220.3 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations Section 2231.0 2231.0.1 INTRODUCTION This manual section provides a brief summary of the Board’s appraisal regulations and directs readers to the key pieces of guidance that the Board and other banking agencies have issued relating to real estate appraisals and evaluations. The Board’s real estate appraisal regulation is found in Regulation Y , subpart G (12 CFR 225.61–67), and applies to bank holding compa- nies, nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding com- panies, and state member banks. For state mem- ber banks, there is a cross reference to the Board’s appraisal regulations in Regulation H (12 CFR 208.50–51). Appraisals are also dis- cussed in the Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies, which are found in appendix C to Regulation H, (appendix C to 12 CFR part 208). Regulation H’s real estate lending standards (12 CFR part 208, subpart E) direct state mem- ber banks to adopt and maintain written real estate lending policies that are consistent with safe and sound lending practices. Such policies should reﬂect consideration of applicable regu- lations and guidance pertaining to real estate appraisals when developing a loan-to-value esti- mate. 1 Although Regulation H applies only to state member banks, bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries are expected to conduct their real estate lending activities in a prudent manner consistent with safe and sound lending standards. 2231.0.2 REGULA TORY BACKGROUND FOR APPRAISALS The Board’s policy on real estate appraisals emphasizes the importance of sound appraisal policies and collateral-valuation procedures as part of a supervised ﬁnancial institution’s real estate lending activity. 2 The Board and other federal ﬁnancial regulatory agencies adopted regulations in August 1990 on the performance and use of appraisals by federally regulated ﬁnancial institutions to implement statutory changes due to the passage of title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) (12 USC 3331 et seq.). 3 The Board’s appraisal regulation requires, at a minimum, that real estate appraisals for feder- ally related transactions be performed in accor- dance with the Uniform Standards of Profes- sional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board (ASB) of the Appraisal Foundation, and that appraisals be in writing. 4 The regulation also sets forth addi- tional appraisal standards, including that the appraisal contain sufﬁcient information and analysis to support the supervised ﬁnancial insti- tution’s decision to engage in the transaction; provide the real property’s market value; be performed by state certiﬁed or licensed apprais- ers as required by the regulations; and analyze deductions and discounts for proposed construc- tion projects, partially leased buildings, nonmar- ket lease terms, and tract developments with unsold units. The intent of title XI and the Board’s appraisal regulation is to protect federal ﬁnan- cial and public policy interests in federally related transactions. 5 Federally related transac- tions are deﬁned as those real estate-related ﬁnancial transactions that an agency engages in, contracts for, or regulates and that require the services of an appraiser. 6 Appraisals are required under the appraisal regulation for all real estate-related ﬁnancial transactions unless an exemption applies. The regulation contains a set of exemptions, includ- ing dollar value thresholds at or below which an appraisal is not required. The exemptions are 1. 12 CFR part 208, appendix C, deﬁnes “value” when used to refer to “loan-to-value” as an opinion or estimate set forth in an appraisal or evaluation, whichever may be appro- priate, of the market value of real property, prepared in accordance with the agency’s appraisal regulations and guid- ance. 2. The Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) (the agencies) have promulgated appraisal regulations pursuant to Title XI. See 12 USC 3339. The agencies’ title XI appraisal regulations apply to transactions entered into by the agencies or by institutions regulated by the agencies that are depository institutions or bank holding companies or subsidi- aries of depository institutions or bank holding companies. OCC: 12 CFR part 34, subpart C; Board: 12 CFR part 225, subpart G; 12 CFR part 208, subpart E; and FDIC: 12 CFR part 323, subpart A. Unless otherwise stated, “supervised ﬁnancial institutions” include state member banks, bank hold- ing companies, and nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding companies. 3. In June 1994, the agencies’ appraisal regulations were materially revised to clarify, amend, and add several exemp- tions to the appraisal requirement. 4. See 12 CFR 225.64. 5. See 12 USC 3331. 6. See 12 USC 3350(4). BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 1 identiﬁed as categories of real estate-related ﬁnancial transactions that do not require the services of an appraiser in order to protect fed- eral ﬁnancial and public policy interests or to satisfy principles of safe and sound banking. As such, the exempted transactions are not feder- ally related transactions under the statutory and regulatory deﬁnitions. Exempted transactions are not subject to title XI nor the provisions of the agencies’ regulations governing appraisals. Certain exemptions, however, require the use of an evaluation consistent with safe and sound banking practices. Interagency guidance has been issued to assist ﬁnancial institutions in performing evaluations consistent with such practices. In addition to federal regulations, each state has established a program for certifying and licensing real estate appraisers who are qualiﬁed to perform appraisals in connection with feder- ally related transactions. Title XI designated the Appraiser Qualiﬁcations Board and the ASB of the Appraisal Foundation, a nonproﬁt appraisal industry group, as the authority for establishing qualiﬁcations criteria for appraiser certiﬁcation and licensing and the standards for the prepara- tion of an appraisal. Title XI established the Appraisal Subcommittee (ASC) of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. The ASC monitors state requirements for certifying and licensing appraisers who can perform appraisals for federally related transactions, state supervision, and registration of appraisal management companies, as well as certain title XI-related requirements established by the fed- eral ﬁnancial regulatory agencies. The ASC also monitors the Appraisal Foundation and its enti- ties. If the ASC issues a ﬁnding that the policies, practices, or procedures of a state appraiser cer- tifying and licensing agency are inconsistent with title XI, the services of licensed or certiﬁed appraisers from that state may not be used in connection with federally related transactions. The ASC also maintains the national registry of appraisers and appraisal management compa- nies. 7 2231.0.3 THE APPRAISAL REGULA TION Regulation Y, 12 CFR part 225, Subpart G, Appraisal Standards for Federally Related Transactions The appraisal regulation sets standards for appraisals in connection with federally related transactions and also contains a lists of transac- tions that do not require the services of an appraiser and, therefore, are exempt from the appraisal requirement of the regulation. In reviewing a real estate loan, examiners assess whether the appraisal supports the real estate value used by the supervised ﬁnancial institu- tion in its credit decision and whether the appraisal complies with the appraisal regulation. Further, examiners assess the adequacy of an institution’s appraisal program to support its real estate lending activity. There are several key sections in the appraisal regulation, which are described in greater detail below. The regu- lation contains the following: • Minimum appraisal standards, section 225.64 The regulation establishes minimum standards necessary for all appraisals that are prepared for federally related transactions. Those appraisals must — conform to generally accepted appraisal standards in USPAP . — be subject to appropriate review for com- pliance with USPAP . — be written and contain sufﬁcient informa- tion and analysis to support the credit decision. — analyze and report deductions and dis- counts for proposed construction or reno- vation, partially leased buildings, nonmar- ket lease terms and tract developments with unsold units. — be based upon the deﬁnition of market value set forth in the deﬁnition section of the regulation. — be performed by state-licensed or state- certiﬁed appraisers in accordance with the regulation. • Independence standards for staff appraisers and fee appraisers, section 225.65 — Staff appraisers must be independent of the lending, investment, and collection functions of the institution and not involved, except as an appraiser, in the federally related transaction and have no direct or indirect interest, ﬁnancial or oth- erwise, in the property. 7. Several provisions in title XI of FIRREA were amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protec- tion Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act), providing additional authority to the ASC in its oversight of states’ appraiser regulatory programs. (See sections 1471–1473 of Pub. L. 111- 203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).) Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 2 — Fee appraisers must be engaged directly by the institution or its agent and have no direct or indirect interest, ﬁnancial or oth- erwise, in the property or the transaction. — The regulation allows an institution to accept an appraisal prepared by an appraiser engaged by another ﬁnancial services institution if the appraiser has no direct or indirect interest, ﬁnancial or oth- erwise, in the property or transaction, and the appraisal complies with the require- ments of the regulation. • Exemptions from the regulation, sec- tion 225.63 — The regulation provides a list of transac- tions that do not require appraisals. These transactions do not require the services of an appraiser and are, therefore, not feder- ally related transactions. Certain of these exceptions require an evaluation in lieu of an appraisal. • Standards for professional association mem- bership and competency, section 225.66 — A state-certiﬁed or state-licensed appraiser may not be excluded from consideration of an assignment based on membership or lack of membership in a particular appraisal organization. — All staff and fee appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions must be state-certiﬁed or state-licensed as appropriate. However, any determination of competency shall be based on the individual’s experience and educational background as they relate to a particular appraisal assignment. • Enforcement actions, section 225.67 — Institutions and their afﬁliates, including staff and fee appraisers, may be subject to removal and/or prohibition orders, cease and desist orders, and the imposition of civil money penalties. 2231.0.4 SUPERVISORY EXPECTA TIONS AND FINDINGS In conjunction with assessing the overall adequacy of a supervised ﬁnancial institution’s appraisal and evaluation program to support safe and sound real estate lending, examiners may cite the appropriate supervised ﬁnancial institu- tion with the following possible ﬁndings. 1. Examiners may make a ﬁnding regarding the supervised ﬁnancial institution’s compliance with the Board’s appraisal regulation. When citing a violation of the appraisal regulation for a state member bank, an examiner should note the matter as a violation of Regula- tion H (12 CFR part 208, subpart E) citing the provision as codiﬁed in Regulation Y . 2. In some instances, the ﬁnding may indicate that a state member bank has failed to com- ply with the Board’s real estate lending stan- dards regulation. Examiners may refer to 12 CFR part 208, appendix C, “Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Poli- cies,” for guidance related to the use of appraisals in developing loan-to-value esti- mates according to the real estate lending standards. 3. Examiners should consider the supervisory expectations in the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines for guidance on safe and sound valuation policies and prac- tices. If the institution’s valuation policies and practices pose safety-and-soundness con- cerns for the institution, examiners could refer to 12 CFR part 208, Appendix D-1, “Interagency Guidelines Establishing Stan- dards for Safety and Soundness,” for guid- ance on consideration of the value of under- lying collateral. The following provides examples of possible examination ﬁndings and references to the applicable provisions in the Board’s regulations. Examples of violations of the appraisal regula- tion, 12 CFR 208.50 as set forth in 12 CFR 225.61–67, include • failure to obtain an appraisal (12 CFR 225.63); — not obtaining an appraisal as required by the regulation — using an outdated appraisal for an existing transaction without meeting the regulatory criteria — not obtaining an appraisal due to the mis- application of an exemption, or when the transaction does not meet the speciﬁc requirements of the exemption — Remedy: Examiners should require the supervised ﬁnancial institution to obtain a new appraisal. • appraisal fails to comply with the minimum appraisal standards in the appraisal regula- tion; — violation of 12 CFR 208.50, subpart E as set forth in 12 CFR 225.64 (minimum Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 3 appraisal standards) or 12 CFR 225.65 (appraiser independence) — Remedy: Examiners should require the supervised ﬁnancial institution to obtain a new appraisal. • failure to use a state-licensed or state-certiﬁed appraiser (12 CFR 225.63); — engaging an appraiser with an expired license or certiﬁcation — engaging a state-licensed appraiser when a state-certiﬁed appraiser is required — Remedy: Examiners should require the supervised ﬁnancial institution to obtain a new appraisal. • failure to maintain appraiser independence (12 CFR 225.65); — using a staff appraiser that is not indepen- dent of the lending function — allowing the borrower to hire the appraiser (the regulation requires that fee appraisers be engaged directly by the institution or its agent) — using an appraisal prepared by an appraiser that has an interest in the real estate — Remedy: Examiners should require the bank to obtain a new appraisal. • failure to obtain an evaluation for certain exempt transactions (12 CFR 225.63(b)). — not obtaining an evaluation for a renewed loan — not obtaining an evaluation for a commer- cial or residential transaction at or under the appropriate threshold — not obtaining an evaluation for a business loan at or under $1 million — For further background, refer to the Inter- agency Guidelines and the section on “Transactions That Require Evaluations” as well as Appendix A—Appraisal Exemptions. — Remedy: Examiners should require the supervised ﬁnancial institution to obtain an evaluation. Examples of violations of the real estate lending regulation 12 CFR part 208, subpart E that pertain to appraisals or evaluations: • The bank does not have adequate procedures for monitoring market conditions for its com- mercial real estate lending. — A bank must monitor real estate market conditions in its lending area and have credit administration policies that address the type and frequency of collateral valua- tions. Violation of 12 CFR part 208, sub- part E (real estate lending standards regu- lation). • Bank does not have appropriate policies estab- lishing loan-to-value limits for real estate col- lateral. Violation of 12 CFR part 208, sub- part E (real estate lending standards regulation). — Remedy: Examiners should require the bank to implement policies and proce- dures to promote compliance with the real estate lending regulation. Examples of possible safety and soundness violations: • The supervised ﬁnancial institution’s overall appraisal function is weak. — The supervised ﬁnancial institution’s appraisal and evaluation programs are inconsistent with safe and sound practices. Guidance on developing appraisal and evaluation programs in a safe and sound manner is provided in the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines. — The supervised ﬁnancial institution’s approach to monitoring collateral values raises safety-and-soundness concerns, as an institution needs to have sufﬁcient information to assess the real estate collat- eral risk in its real estate loan portfolio. • The evaluation is inadequate. — The supervised ﬁnancial institution has failed to satisfy supervisory expectations for evaluations. — For further guidance, refer to the Inter- agency Guidelines, the “Evaluation Devel- opment” and “Evaluation Content” sub- sections, and Appendix B — Evaluations Based on Analytical Methods or Techno- logical Tools. — Remedy: Depending upon the noted deﬁ- ciencies, examiners should require the supervised ﬁnancial institution to perform a new evaluation or, alternatively, the institution may obtain an appraisal. • The supervised ﬁnancial institution has failed to meet independence expectations for its appraisal and evaluation program. Guidance for meeting independence expectations is set forth in the section on the Independence of the Appraisal and Evaluation Program in the Interagency Guidelines. — Evaluations are prepared by persons who are not independent of loan production. — Reporting lines of valuation program staff are not independent of loan production. Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 4 2231.0.5 INTERAGENCY APPRAISAL AND EV ALUA TION GUIDELINES Over the years, the Board and the other federal banking regulatory agencies (the Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the agencies)) have issued several appraisal-related guidance documents to assist institutions in implementing and complying with the appraisal regulation. 8 In December 2010, the agencies issued the Inter- agency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines (Interagency Guidelines) to clarify their appraisal regulations and to promote best prac- tices in institutions’ appraisal and evaluation programs. (See SR-10-16.) The Interagency Guidelines pertain to all real estate-related ﬁnancial transactions originated or purchased by a regulated institution or its operating subsidiary for its own portfolio or as assets held for sale, including activities of commercial and residen- tial real estate mortgage operations, capital mar- kets groups, and asset securitization and sales units. The Interagency Guidelines provide a comprehensive discussion of the Board’s super- visory expectations for a supervised ﬁnancial institution’s appraisal and evaluation program as well as background information on the tech- nical aspects of appraisals. The Interagency Guidelines more fully explain and clarify the requirements of the appraisal regulation. The Interagency Guide- lines also contain supervisory guidance for developing and maintaining a safe and sound appraisal and evaluation program. Expectations for evaluations are addressed in the guidelines to clarify the requirement in the regulation that evaluations be performed in a safe and sound manner. For example, the appraisal regulation allows for the substitution of an “appropriate evaluation” for an appraisal under certain trans- actions; however, the regulation does not deﬁne what is an appropriate evaluation. The Inter- agency Guidelines provide guidance to assist regulated institutions in determining what an “appropriate evaluation” is. A violation of the appraisal regulation should be cited if the insti- tution failed to obtain an evaluation, where one was required. The Interagency Guidelines may be used as guidance, for example, in determin- ing the appropriate type of content in an evalua- tion. However, in making determinations about the adequacy of an institution’s evaluation con- tent, an assessment of the impact on the safety and soundness of the institution should be made and if it is determined that the evaluation was not conducted in a safe and sound manner, the evaluation requirement of the appraisal regula- tion should be cited. The Interagency Guide- lines serve two main purposes: 1. Provides guidance regarding supervisory expectations for a supervised ﬁnancial insti- tution’s appraisal and evaluation program including that • the institution’s board of directors should provide for an effective appraisal and evaluation program; • the program should be independent; • the program should have a criteria for selection of appraisers and evaluators; • appraisals and evaluations should be appropriately reviewed; • there should be appropriate oversight of third-party arrangements; • the lender should have an appropriate com- pliance program; and • the lender should report appraisers that are involved in USPAP violations to state appraisal regulatory agencies. 2. Clariﬁes and provides guidance to assist ﬁrms in complying with the appraisal regula- tion, such as • the content expectations of an evaluation; • independence expectations for evaluations; • transactions that are exempt from the appraisal requirement; • situations where a real estate loan does not qualify for an exemption; • assessing the validity of existing appraisals and evaluations; • the importance of a scope of work and valuation approach in appraisal develop- ment; and • appraisal report options. The Interagency Guidelines also discuss other uses for appraisals and evaluations. For exam- ple, a supervised ﬁnancial institution’s collateral-valuation program should consider when an appraisal or evaluation should be obtained to monitor ongoing collateral risk and to support credit analysis, including for pur- poses of updating risk ratings or classifying the credit. Also, when a credit becomes troubled, the primary source of repayment often shifts from the borrower’s cash ﬂow and income to the expected proceeds from the sale of the real estate collateral. Therefore, it is important that supervised ﬁnancial institutions have a sound 8. For more information, see the “ Real Estate” supervisory policy and guidance topic page. Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 5 and independent basis for determining the ongo- ing value of the real estate collateral. (See SR-09-7, “Prudent Commercial Real Estate Loan Workouts.”) 2231.0.5.1 Appendixes of Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines Below are summaries of the four appendixes included with the guidelines found in the attach- ment to SR-10-16 . Appendix A—Appraisal Exemptions. A com- mentary on the 12 exemptions from the agen- cies’ appraisal regulations. The appendix pro- vides an explanation of the agencies’ statutory authority to provide for appraisal regulatory exemptions and the application of these exemp- tions. In addition to these exemptions, note that the appraisal regulation has been amended to exempt commercial real estate transactions below $500,000 and residential real estate trans- actions below $400,000. 9 Appendix B—Evaluations Based on Analytical Methods and Technological Tools. A discussion of the agencies’ expectations for evaluations that are based on analytical methods and techno- logical tools, including the use of automated valuation models and tax assessment valuations. Appendix C—Deductions and Discounts Mini- mum. A discussion on appraisal standards for determining the market value of a residential tract development, including an explanation of the requirement to analyze and report appropri- ate deductions and discounts for proposed con- struction or renovation, partially leased build- ings, nonmarket lease terms, and tract developments with unsold units. Appendix D—Glossary. Deﬁnitions of terms related to real estate lending, appraisals, and regulations to aid in reading the guidelines. 2231.0.6 ASSESSING THE ADEQUACY OF AN APPRAISAL When assessing the adequacy of an appraisal and its compliance with the minimum appraisal standards, examiners should assess whether the appraisal conforms to USPAP Standard Rule 1—Real Property Appraisal Development, and USPAP Standard Rule 2—Real Property Appraisal Reporting. The Interagency Guide- lines discuss the importance of the appraiser developing an appropriate “scope of work” con- sistent with USPAP’s Scope of Work rule. An appraisal’s scope of work should be clearly developed and explained in the appraisal report. Further, the appraisal report should include a copy of the supervised ﬁnancial institution’s engagement letter with the appraiser for the appraisal assignment. It is important to note that some of the USPAP standards differ from aspects of the appraisal regulation, and, in such cases, the appraisal regulation should be followed with respect to appraisals for federally related trans- actions. For example, USPAP does not require appraiser independence and allows for apprais- als to address deﬁnitions of value other than market value. In reviewing a real estate loan and the related appraisal, examiners should consider whether the type of appraisal report is acceptable, the valuation approach is appropriate for the trans- action, and the appraisal contains an estimate based on the market value deﬁnition. The appraisal should contain a clear development of the market value of the collateral and should contain sufﬁcient information to support the real estate’s market value and the supervised ﬁnan- cial institution’s credit decision. The USPAP standards discuss all of the basic components of an appraisal. Residential appraisals are com- monly completed in a report format that con- forms to the Uniform Residential Appraisal Report, which was developed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Examiners should also conﬁrm that the bank has procedures for reviewing appraisals and evaluations to determine that an appraisal or evaluation complies with the appraisal regula- tion and provides sufﬁcient information to sup- port the supervised ﬁnancial institution’s credit decision. The Appraisal Regulation was amended to require supervised ﬁnancial institu- 9. In addition, the regulation was amended to cross refer- ence a self-effectuating statutory exemption for rural residen- tial real estate transactions under $400,000 that meet certain requirements, which was enacted by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA). Supervised ﬁnancial institutions are unlikely to rely on this exemption because all transactions within its scope are also exempt under the broader residential threshold exemption, which does not require the institution to meet any other criteria. An evaluation is required regardless of whether the institution relies on the general residential threshold or rural exemption. For more information on the effective dates of this amendment, see 84 Fed. Reg. 53,579 (October 8, 2019). Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 6 tions to subject appraisals to appropriate review for compliance with USPAP . The Interagency Guidelines provide further guidance on appro- priate reviews. Not all appraisal reviews need to include the content of a USPAP Standard 3— Appraisal Review, Development, and Report- ing. The depth of the appraisal review per- formed by the bank should consider the complexity and risk of the transaction. If deﬁ- ciencies are noted in the supervised ﬁnancial institution’s review process, a supervised ﬁnan- cial institution should obtain a USPAP compli- ant review completed by an appraiser or obtain a new compliant appraisal. Supervised ﬁnancial institutions are encouraged to report to the state appraiser regulatory agency any appraiser that violates USPAP standards. 2231.0.7 APPRAISAL V ALUA TION APPROACHES An appraiser typically utilizes three market- value approaches to analyze the value of prop- erty: 10 • cost approach • sales comparison approach • income approach Appraisers should consider all three approaches to value when completing an appraisal assignment. All three approaches have particular merits depending upon the type of real estate being appraised. For example, for single-family residential property, the cost and comparable sales approaches are most fre- quently used since the common use of the prop- erty is the personal residence of the owner. However, if a single-family residential property were intended to be used as a rental property, the appraiser would have to consider the income approach as well. Commercial properties are typically valued using all three approaches to value, whereas the income approach is heavily favored for property whose primary source of income is derived from rents. The appraiser then correlates the results of the value considerations to determine a market value for the subject real estate. For special-use commercial properties, the appraiser may have difﬁculty obtaining sales data on comparable properties and may have to base the value estimate on the cost and income approaches. If an approach is not used in the appraisal, the appraiser should disclose the reason the approach was not used and whether this affects the value estimate. 2231.0.7.1 Cost Approach The cost approach is commonly used to value construction or improvements to an existing building. In the cost approach to value estima- tion, the appraiser obtains a preliminary indica- tion of value by adding the estimated depreci- ated reproduction cost of the improvements to the estimated land value. This approach is based on the assumption that the reproduction cost is the upper limit of value and that a newly con- structed building would have functional and mechanical advantages over an existing build- ing. The appraiser would evaluate any func- tional depreciation (disadvantages or deﬁcien- cies) of the existing building in relation to a new structure. The cost approach consists of four basic steps: (1) estimate the value of the land as though vacant, (2) estimate the current cost of reproducing the existing improvements, (3) esti- mate depreciation and deduct from the repro- duction cost estimate, and (4) add the estimate of land value and the depreciated reproduction cost of improvements to determine the value estimate. 2231.0.7.2 Sales Comparison Approach The essence of the sales comparison approach is to determine the price at which similar proper- ties have recently sold on the local market. Through an appropriate adjustment for differ- ences in the subject property and the selected comparable properties, the appraiser estimates the market value of the subject property based on the sales price of the comparable properties. The process used in determining the degree of comparability of two or more properties involves judgment about their similarity with respect to age, location, condition, construction, layout, and equipment. The sales price or list price of those properties deemed most compa- rable tends to set the range for the value of the subject property. 10. The standards and application of valuation approaches are contained in the USPAP published by the Appraisal Stan- dards Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 7 2231.0.7.3 Income Approach The income approach estimates the real estate project’s expected income over time converted to an estimate of its present value. The income approach is typically used to determine the mar- ket value of income-producing properties that receive rent, such as ofﬁce buildings, apartment complexes, hotels, and shopping centers. In the income approach, the appraiser can apply sev- eral different capitalization or discounted cash- ﬂow techniques to arrive at a market value. These techniques include the band-of- investments method, mortgage-equity method, annuity method, and land-residual method. Which method is used depends on whether there is project ﬁnancing, whether there are long-term leases with ﬁxed-level payments, and whether the value is being rendered for a component of the project, such as land or buildings. The accuracy of the income-approach method depends on the appraiser’s skill in estimating the anticipated future net income of the property and in selecting the appropriate capitalization rate and discounted cash ﬂow. The following data are assembled and analyzed to determine potential net income and value: • Rent schedules and the percentage of occu- pancy for the subject property and for compa- rable properties for the current year and sev- eral preceding years. This provides gross rental data and shows the trend of rentals and occupancy, which are then analyzed by the appraiser to estimate the gross income the property should produce. • Expense data, such as taxes, insurance, and operating costs paid from revenues derived from the subject property and by comparable properties. Historical trends in these expense items are also determined. • A time frame for achieving stabilized, or nor- mal, occupancy and rent levels (also referred to as a holding period). Basically, the income approach converts all expected future net operating income into present-value terms. When market conditions are stable and no unusual patterns of future rents and occupancy rates are expected, the direct capitalization method is used to value income properties. This method calculates the value of a property by dividing an estimate of its stabilized annual income by a factor called a capitalization rate or “cap rate.” Stabilized income is generally deﬁned as the yearly net operating income pro- duced by the property at normal occupancy and rental rates; it may be adjusted upward or down- ward from today’s actual market conditions. The cap rate—usually deﬁned for each property type in a market area—is viewed by some ana- lysts as the required rate of return stated as a percentage of current income. The use of this technique assumes that the use of either the stabilized income or the cap rate accurately captures all relevant characteristics of the property relating to its risk and income potential. If the same risk factors, required rate of return, ﬁnancing arrangements, and income projections are used, explicit discounting and direct capitalization should yield the same results. For special-use properties, new projects, or troubled properties, the discounted cash ﬂow (net present value) method is the more typical approach to analyzing a property’s value. In this method, a time frame for achieving a stabilized, or normal, occupancy and rent level is pro- jected. Each year’s net operating income during that period is discounted to arrive at the present value of expected future cash ﬂows. The proper- ty’s anticipated sales value at the end of the period until stabilization (its terminal or rever- sion value) is then estimated. The reversion value represents the capitalization of all future income streams of the property after the pro- jected occupancy level is achieved. The termi- nal or reversion value is then discounted to its present value and added to the discounted income stream to arrive at the total present market value of the property. Most importantly, the analysis should be based on the ability of the project to generate income over time based upon reasonable and supportable assumptions. Additionally, the dis- count rate should reﬂect reasonable expectations about the rate of return that investors require under normal, orderly, and sustainable market conditions. 2231.0.7.4 Value Correlation The three value estimates—cost, sales compari- son, and income—must be evaluated by the appraiser and correlated into a ﬁnal value esti- mate based on the appraiser’s judgment. Corre- lation does not imply averaging the value esti- mates obtained by using the three different approaches. Where these value estimates are relatively close together, correlating them and setting the ﬁnal market value estimate presents no special problem. It is in situations where widely divergent values are obtained by using Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 8 the three appraisal approaches that the examiner must exercise judgment in analyzing the results and determining the estimate of market value. 2231.0.7.5 Other Deﬁnitions of Value While the Board’s appraisal regulation requires that the appraisal contain the market value of the real estate collateral, there are other deﬁni- tions of value that are encountered in appraising and evaluating real estate transactions. These include the following: Fair value. This is an accounting term that is generally deﬁned as the amount in cash or cash- equivalent value of other consideration that a real estate parcel would yield in a current sale between a willing buyer and a willing seller (the selling price), that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. 11 According to accounting lit- erature, fair value is generally used in valuing assets in nonmonetary transactions, troubled debt restructuring, quasi-reorganizations, and business combinations accounted for by the pur- chase method. An accountant generally deﬁnes fair value as market value; however, depending on the circumstances, these values may not be the same for a particular property. Investment value. This is based on the data and assumptions that meet the criteria and objectives of a particular investor for a speciﬁc property or project. The investor’s criteria and objectives are often substantially different from participants’ criteria and objectives in a broader market. Thus, investment value can be signiﬁ- cantly higher than market value in certain cir- cumstances and should not be used in credit analysis decisions. Liquidation value. This assumes that there is little or no current demand for the property but the property needs to be disposed of quickly, resulting in the owner sacriﬁcing potential prop- erty appreciation for an immediate sale. Going-concern value. This is based on the value of a business entity rather than the value of just the real estate. The valuation is based on the existing operations of the business that has a proven operating record, with the assumption that the business will continue to operate. Tax-assessed value. This represents the value on which a taxing authority bases its assess- ment. The assessed value and market value may differ considerably due to tax assessment laws, timing of reassessments, and tax exemptions allowed on properties or portions of a property. Net realizable value (NRV). This is recog- nized under generally accepted accounting prin- ciples as the estimated selling price in the ordi- nary course of business less estimated costs of completion (to the stage of completion assumed in determining the selling price), holding, and disposal. The NRV is generally used to evaluate the carrying amount of assets being held for disposition and properties representing collat- eral. While the market value or future selling price are generally used as the basis for the NRV calculation, the NRV also reﬂects the cur- rent owner’s costs to complete the project and to hold and dispose of the property. For this rea- son, the NRV will generally be less than the market value. 11. See Accounting Standards Codiﬁcation (ASC) Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures” (for- merly FASB Statement No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements”). It deﬁnes fair value and establishes a framework for measur- ing fair value. ASC Topic 820 should be applied when other accounting topics require or permit fair value measurements. Fair value is deﬁned as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the asset’s or liability’s princi- pal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date. This value is often referred to as an “exit” price. An orderly transaction is a transaction that assumes exposure to the market for a period prior to the measurement date to allow for marketing activities that are usual and customary for transac- tions involving such assets or liabilities; it is not a forced liquidation or distressed sale. Real Estate Appraisals and Evaluations 2231.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2020 Page 9 Guidelines for the Review and Classiﬁcation of Troubled Real Estate Loans Section 2240.0 These guidelines are designed to in ensure that troubled real estate loans receive consistent treatment nationwide. The guidelines are not intended to be a substitute for the examiner’s judgment or for careful analysis of applicable credit and collateral factors. Use of the word ‘‘institution’’ in these guidelines refers to any lending source within the bank holding com- pany organization, whether the lender is the parent company, a bank, thrift, or nonbanking subsidiary. 2240.0.1 EXAMINER REVIEW OF COMMERCIAL REAL ESTA TE LOANS 2240.0.1.1 Loan Policy and Administration Review As part of the analysis of an institution’s com- mercial real estate loan portfolio, examiners review lending policies, loan administration pro- cedures, and credit risk control procedures. The maintenance of prudent written lending policies, effective internal systems and controls, and thorough loan documentation are essential to the institution’s management of the lending function. The policies governing an institution’s real estate lending activities must include prudent underwriting standards that are periodically reviewed by the board of directors and clearly communicated to the institution’s management and lending staff. The institution must also have credit risk control procedures that include, for example, prudent internal limits on exposure, an effective credit review and classiﬁcation pro- cess, and a methodology for ensuring that the allowance for loan and lease losses is main- tained at an adequate level. The complexity and scope of these policies and procedures should be appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature of the institution’s activities, and should be consistent with prudent banking prac- tices and relevant regulatory requirements. 2240.0.1.2 Indicators of Troubled Real Estate Markets and Projects, and Related Indebtedness In order to evaluate the collectibility of an insti- tution’s commercial real estate portfolio, exam- iners should be alert for indicators of weakness in the real estate markets served by the institu- tion. They should also be alert for indicators of actual or potential problems in the individual commercial real estate projects or transactions ﬁnanced by the institution. There are several warning signs that real estate markets or projects are experiencing prob- lems that may result in real estate values decreasing from original appraisals or projec- tions. Adverse economic developments and/or an overbuilt market can affect a project’s eco- nomic feasibility and may cause a real estate project and the loan to become troubled. Avail- able indicators, such as permits for—and the value of—new construction, absorption rates, employment trends, and vacancy rates, are use- ful in evaluating the condition of commercial real estate markets. Weaknesses disclosed by these types of statistics may indicate that a real estate market is experiencing difﬁculties that may result in cash ﬂow problems for individual real estate projects, declining real estate values, and ultimately, in troubled commercial real estate loans. Indicators of potential or actual difﬁculties in commercial real estate projects may include: • An excess of similar projects under construction. • Construction delays or other unplanned adverse events resulting in cost overruns that may require renegotiation of loan terms. • Lack of a sound feasibility study or analysis that reﬂects current and reasonably antici- pated market conditions. • Changes in concept or plan (for example, a condominium project converted to an apart- ment project because of unfavorable market conditions). • Rent concessions or sales discounts resulting in cash ﬂow below the level projected in the original feasibility study or appraisal. • Concessions on ﬁnishing tenant space, mov- ing expenses, and lease buyouts. • Slow leasing or lack of sustained sales activ- ity and increasing sales cancellations that may reduce the project’s income potential, result- ing in protracted repayment or default on the loan. • Delinquent lease payments from major tenants. • Land values that assume future rezoning. • Tax arrearages. As the problems associated with a commer- cial real estate project become more pro- BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 nounced, problems with the related indebted- ness may also arise. Such problems include diminished cash ﬂow to service the debt and delinquent interest and principal payments. While some commercial real estate loans become troubled because of a general downturn in the market, others become troubled because they were originated on an unsound or a liberal basis. Common examples of these types of prob- lems include: • Loans with no or minimal borrower equity. • Loans on speculative undeveloped property where the borrowers’ only source of repay- ment is the sale of the property. • Loans based on land values that have been driven up by rapid turnover of ownership, but without any corresponding improvements to the property or supportable income projec- tions to justify an increase in value. • Additional advances to service an existing loan that lacks credible support for full repay- ment from reliable sources. • Loans to borrowers with no development plans or noncurrent development plans. • Renewals, extensions and reﬁnancings that lack credible support for full repayment from reliable sources and that do not have a reason- able repayment schedule. 1 2240.0.1.3 Examiner Review of Individual Loans, Including the Analysis of Collateral Value The focus of an examiner’s review of a commer- cial real estate loan, including binding commit- ments, is the ability of the loan to be repaid. The principal factors that bear on this analysis are the income-producing potential of the under- lying collateral and the borrower’s willingness and capacity to repay under the existing loan terms from the borrower’s other resources if necessary. In evaluating the overall risk associ- ated with a commercial real estate loan, examin- ers consider a number of factors, including the character, overall ﬁnancial condition and resources, and payment record of the borrower; the prospects for support from any ﬁnancially responsible guarantors; and the nature and degree of protection provided by the cash ﬂow and value of the underlying collateral. 2 How- ever, as other sources of repayment for a troubled commercial real estate loan become inadequate over time, the importance of the collateral’s value in the analysis of the loan necessarily increases. The appraisal regulations of the federal bank and thrift regulatory agencies require institu- tions to obtain appraisals when certain criteria are met. 3 Management is responsible for review- ing each appraisal’s assumptions and conclu- sions for reasonableness. Appraisal assumptions should not be based solely on current conditions that ignore the stabilized income-producing capacity of the property. 4 Management should adjust any assumptions used by an appraiser in determining value that are overly optimistic or pessimistic. An examiner analyzes the collateral’s value as determined by the institution’s most recent appraisal (or internal evaluation, as applicable). An examiner reviews the major facts, assump- tions, and approaches used by the appraiser (including any comments made by management on the value rendered by the appraiser). Under the circumstances described below, the exam- iner may make adjustments to this assessment of value. This review and any resulting adjust- ments to value are solely for purposes of an examiner’s analysis and classiﬁcation of a credit and do not involve actual adjustments to an appraisal. A discounted cash ﬂow analysis is an appro- priate method for estimating the value of income-producing real estate collateral. 5 This analysis should not be based solely on the cur- rent performance of the collateral or similar properties; rather, it should take into account, on 1. As discussed more fully in Manual section 2240.0.2, the reﬁnancing or renewing of loans to sound borrowers would not result in a supervisory classiﬁcation or criticism unless well-deﬁned weaknesses exist that jeopardize repayment of the loans. Consistent with sound banking practices, institu- tions should work in an appropriate and constructive manner with borrowers who may be experiencing temporary difﬁculties. 2. The treatment of guarantees in the classiﬁcation process is discussed in subsection 2240.0.3. 3. Department of the Treasury, Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency, 12 CFR Part 34 (Docket No. 90–16); Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 12 CFR Parts 208 and 225 (Regulation H and Y; Docket No. R–0685); Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 12 CFR 323 (RIN 3064–AB05); Department of the Treasury; Ofﬁce of Thrift Supervision, 12 CFR Part 564 (Docket No. 90–1495). 4. Stabilized income generally is deﬁned as the yearly net operating income produced by the property at normal occu- pancy and rental rates; it may be adjusted upward or down- ward from today’s actual market conditions. 5. The real estate appraisal regulations of the federal bank and thrift regulatory agencies include a requirement that an appraisal (a) follow a reasonable valuation method that addresses the direct sales comparison, income, and cost approaches to market value; (b) reconcile these approaches; and (c) explain the elimination of each approach not used. A discounted cash ﬂow analysis is recognized as a valuation method for the income approach. Guidelines for the Review and Classiﬁcation of Troubled Real Estate Loans 2240.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 2 a discounted basis, the ability of the real estate to generate income over time based upon rea- sonable and supportable assumptions. When reviewing the reasonableness of the facts and assumptions associated with the value of the collateral, examiners may evaluate: • Current and projected vacancy and absorption rates; • Lease renewal trends and anticipated rents; • Volume and trends in past due leases; • Effective rental rates or sale prices (taking into account all concessions); • Net operating income of the property as com- pared with budget projections; and • Discount rates and direct capitalization (‘‘cap’’) rates. The capacity of a property to generate cash ﬂow to service a loan is evaluated based upon rents (or sales), expenses, and rates of occu- pancy that are reasonably estimated to be achieved over time. The determination of the level of stabilized occupancy and rental rates should be based upon an analysis of current and reasonably expected market conditions, taking into consideration historical levels when appro- priate. The analysis of collateral values should not be based upon a simple projection of current levels of net operating income if markets are depressed or reﬂect speculative pressures but can be expected over a reasonable period of time to return to normal (stabilized) conditions. Judgment is involved in determining the time that it will take for a property to achieve stabi- lized occupancy and rental rates. Examiners do not make adjustments to appraisal assumptions for credit analysis pur- poses based on worst case scenarios that are unlikely to occur. For example, an examiner would not necessarily assume that a building will become vacant just because an existing tenant who is renting at a rate above today’s market rate may vacate the property when the current lease expires. On the other hand, an adjustment to value may be appropriate for credit analysis purposes when the valuation assumes renewal at the above-market rate, unless that rate is a reasonable estimate of the expected market rate at the time of renewal. When estimating the value of income- producing real estate, discount rates and ‘‘cap’’ rates should reﬂect reasonable expectations about the rate of return that investors require under normal, orderly and sustainable market conditions. Exaggerated, imprudent, or unsus- tainably high or low discount rates, ‘‘cap’’ rates, and income projections should not be used. Direct capitalization of nonstabilized income ﬂows should also not be used. Assumptions, when recently made by quali- ﬁed appraisers (and, as appropriate, by institu- tion management) and when consistent with the discussion above, should be given a reasonable amount of deference. Examiners should not challenge the underlying assumptions, including discount rates and ‘‘cap’’ rates used in apprais- als, that differ only in a limited way from norms that would generally be associated with the property under review. The estimated value of the underlying collateral may be adjusted for credit analysis purposes when the examiner can establish that any underlying facts or assump- tions are inappropriate and can support alterna- tive assumptions. 2240.0.2 CLASSIFICA TION GUIDELINES As with other types of loans, commercial real estate loans that are adequately protected by the current sound worth and debt service capacity of the borrower, guarantor, or the underlying collateral generally are not classiﬁed. Similarly, loans to sound borrowers that are reﬁnanced or renewed in accordance with prudent underwrit- ing standards, including loans to creditworthy commercial or residential real estate developers, should not be classiﬁed or criticized unless well- deﬁned weaknesses exist that jeopardize repay- ment. An institution will not be criticized for continuing to carry loans having weaknesses that result in classiﬁcation or criticism as long as the institution has a well-conceived and effec- tive workout plan for such borrowers, and effec- tive internal controls to manage the level of these loans. In evaluating commercial real estate credits for possible classiﬁcation, examiners apply stan- dard classiﬁcation deﬁnitions. In determining the appropriate classiﬁcation, consideration should be given to all important information on repayment prospects, including information on the borrower’s creditworthiness, the value of, and cash ﬂow provided by, all collateral support- ing the loan, and any support provided by ﬁnan- cially responsible guarantors. The loan’s record of performance to date is important and must be taken into consideration. As a general principle, a performing commer- cial real estate loan should not automatically be classiﬁed or charged-off solely because the Guidelines for the Review and Classiﬁcation of Troubled Real Estate Loans 2240.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 value of the underlying collateral has declined to an amount that is less than the loan balance. However, it would be appropriate to classify a performing loan when well-deﬁned weaknesses exist that jeopardize repayment, such as the lack of credible support for full repayment from reli- able sources. These principles hold for individual credits, even if portions or segments of the industry to which the borrower belongs are experiencing ﬁnancial difﬁculties. The evaluation of each credit should be based upon the fundamental characteristics affecting the collectibility of the particular credit. The problems broadly associ- ated with some sectors or segments of an indus- try, such as certain commercial real estate mar- kets, should not lead to overly pessimistic assessments of particular credits that are not affected by the problems of the troubled sectors. 2240.0.2.1 Classiﬁcation of Troubled Project-Dependent Commercial Real Estate Loans 6 The following guidelines for classifying a troubled commercial real estate loan apply when the repayment of the debt will be provided solely by the underlying real estate collateral, and there are no other available and reliable sources of repayment. The guidelines are not intended to address loans that must be treated as ‘‘Other Real Estate Owned’’ for bank and BHC reporting purposes. As a general principle, for a troubled project- dependent commercial real estate loan, any por- tion of the loan balance that exceeds the amount that is adequately secured by the value of the collateral, and that can clearly be identiﬁed as uncollectible, should be classiﬁed ‘‘loss.’’ 7 The portion of the loan balance that is adequately secured by the value of the collateral should generally be classiﬁed no worse than ‘‘substan- dard.’’ The amount of the loan balance in excess of the value of the collateral, or portions thereof, should be classiﬁed ‘‘doubtful’’ when the poten- tial for full loss may be mitigated by the out- comes of certain pending events, or when loss is expected but the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably determined. If warranted by the underlying circumstances, an examiner may use a ‘‘doubtful’’ classiﬁca- tion on the entire loan balance. However, this would occur infrequently. 2240.0.2.2 Guidelines for Classifying Partially Charged-off Loans Based upon consideration of all relevant factors, an evaluation may indicate that a credit has well-deﬁned weaknesses that jeopardize collec- tion in full, but that a portion of the loan may be reasonably assured of collection. When an insti- tution has taken a charge-off in an amount sufﬁ- cient that the remaining recorded balance of the loan (a) is being serviced (based upon reliable sources) and (b) is reasonably assured of collec- tion, classiﬁcation of the remaining recorded balance may not be appropriate. Classiﬁcation would be appropriate when well-deﬁned weak- nesses continue to be present in the remaining recorded balance. In such cases, the remaining recorded balance would generally be classiﬁed no more severely than ‘‘substandard.’’ A more severe classiﬁcation than ‘‘substan- dard’’ for the remaining recorded balance would be appropriate if the loss exposure cannot be reasonably determined, e.g., where signiﬁcant risk exposures are perceived, such as might be the case for bankruptcy situations or for loans collateralized by properties subject to environ- mental hazards. In addition, classiﬁcation of the remaining recorded balance would be appropri- ate when sources of repayment are considered unreliable. 2240.0.2.3 Guidelines for Classifying Formally Restructured Loans The classiﬁcation treatment previously dis- cussed for a partially charged off loan would also generally be appropriate for a formally restructured loan when partial charge-offs have been taken. For a formally restructured loan, the focus of the examiner’s analysis is on the ability of the borrower to repay the loan in accordance with its modiﬁed terms. Classiﬁcation of a for- mally restructured loan would be appropriate, if, after the restructuring, well-deﬁned weaknesses exist that jeopardize the orderly repayment of the loan in accordance with reasonable modiﬁed 6. The discussion in this section is not intended to address loans that must be treated as ‘‘other real estate owned’’ for bank regulatory reporting purposes or ‘‘real estate owned’’ for thrift regulatory reporting purposes. Guidance on these assets is presented in supervisory and reporting guidance of the agencies. 7. For purposes of this discussion, the ‘‘value of the collat- eral’’ is the value used by the examiner for credit analysis purposes, as discussed in a previous section of this policy statement. Guidelines for the Review and Classiﬁcation of Troubled Real Estate Loans 2240.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 4 terms.8 Troubled commercial real estate loans whose terms have been restructured should be identiﬁed in the institution’s internal credit review system, and closely monitored by management. 2240.0.3 TREA TMENT OF GUARANTEES IN THE CLASSIFICA TION PROCESS Initially, the original source of repayment and the borrower’s intent and ability to fulﬁll the obligation without reliance on third party guar- antors will be the primary basis for the review and classiﬁcation of assets. 9 The federal bank and thrift regulatory agencies will, however, consider the support provided by guarantees in the determination of the appropriate classiﬁca- tion treatment for troubled loans. The presence of a guarantee from a ‘‘ﬁnancially responsible guarantor,’’ as described below, may be sufﬁ- cient to preclude classiﬁcation or reduce the severity of classiﬁcation. For purposes of this discussion, a guarantee from a ‘‘ﬁnancially responsible guarantor’’ has the following attributes: • The guarantor must have both the ﬁnancial capacity and willingness to provide support for the credit; • The nature of the guarantee is such that it can provide support for repayment of the indebt- edness, in whole or in part, during the remain- ing loan term; and 10 • The guarantee should be legally enforceable. The above characteristics generally indicate that a guarantee may improve the prospects for repayment of the debt obligation. 2240.0.3.1 Considerations Relating to a Guarantor’s Financial Capacity The lending institution must have sufﬁcient information on the guarantor’s ﬁnancial condi- tion, income, liquidity, cash ﬂow, contingent liabilities, and other relevant factors (including credit ratings, when available) to demonstrate the guarantor’s ﬁnancial capacity to fulﬁll the obligation. Also, it is important to consider the number and amount of guarantees currently extended by a guarantor, in order to determine that the guarantor has the ﬁnancial capacity to fulﬁll the contingent claims that exist. 2240.0.3.2 Considerations Relating to a Guarantor’s Willingness to Repay Examiners normally rely on their analysis of the guarantor’s ﬁnancial strength and assume a will- ingness to perform unless there is evidence to the contrary. This assumption may be modiﬁed based on the ‘‘track record’’ of the guarantor, including payments made to date on the asset under review or other obligations. Examiners give due consideration to those guarantors that have demonstrated their ability and willingness to fulﬁll previous obligations in their evaluation of current guarantees on similar assets. An important consideration will be whether previously required performance under guarantees was voluntary or the result of legal or other actions by the lender to enforce the guarantee. However, examiners give limited cre- dence, if any, to guarantees from obligors who have reneged on obligations in the past, unless there is clear evidence that the guarantor has the ability and intent to honor the speciﬁc guarantee obligation under review. Examiners also consider the economic incen- tives for performance from guarantors: • Who have already partially performed under the guarantee or who have other signiﬁcant investments in the project; • Whose other sound projects are cross- collateralized or otherwise intertwined with the credit; or • Where the guarantees are collateralized by readily marketable assets that are under the control of a third party. 8. An example of a restructured commercial real estate loan that does not have reasonable modiﬁed terms would be a ‘‘cash ﬂow’’ mortgage which requires interest payments only when the underlying collateral generates cash ﬂow but pro- vides no substantive beneﬁts to the lending institution. 9. Some loans are originated based primarily upon the ﬁnancial strength of the guarantor, who is, in substance, the primary source of repayment. In such circumstances, examin- ers generally assess the collectibility of the loan based upon the guarantor’s ability to repay the loan. 10. Some guarantees may only provide for support for certain phases of a real estate project. It would not be appro- priate to rely upon these guarantees to support a troubled loan after the completion of these phases. Guidelines for the Review and Classiﬁcation of Troubled Real Estate Loans 2240.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 5 2240.0.3.3 Other Considerations as to the Treatment of Guarantees in the Classiﬁcation Process In general, only guarantees that are legally enforceable will be relied upon. However, all legally enforceable guarantees may not be acceptable. In addition to the guarantor’s ﬁnan- cial capacity and willingness to perform, it is expected that the guarantee will not be subject to signiﬁcant delays in collection, or undue com- plexities or uncertainties about the guarantee. The nature of the guarantee is also considered by examiners. For example, some guarantees for real estate projects only pertain to the develop- ment and construction phases of the project. As such, these limited guarantees would not be relied upon to support a troubled loan after the completion of those phases. Examiners also consider the institution’s intent to enforce the guarantee and whether there are valid reasons to preclude an institution from pursuing the guarantee. A history of timely enforcement and successful collection of the full amount of guarantees will be a positive consid- eration in the classiﬁcation process. Guidelines for the Review and Classiﬁcation of Troubled Real Estate Loans 2240.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 6 Retail Credit Classiﬁcation Section 2241.0 In June 2000, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys- tem (Federal Reserve), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), collec- tively referred to as “the agencies,” published revisions to the Uniform Retail Credit Classiﬁ- cation and Account Management Policy. 1 The purpose of the 2000 revision was to clarify certain provisions, especially regarding the re-aging of open-end accounts and extensions, deferrals, renewals, and rewrites of closed-end loans. The revised policy provides supervisory guidance for residential and home equity loans; fraudulent loans; loans to deceased persons; loans to borrowers in bankruptcy; treatment of partial payments involving past-due loans; and re-aging, deferrals, renewals, or rewrites of open-end and closed-end credit. The agencies are to use this expanded supervisory guidance when applying the uniform classiﬁcations to retail-credit loans extended by depository insti- tutions. See SR-00-8, “Revised Uniform Retail Credit Classiﬁcation and Account Management Policy.” While the terms of the revised policy apply only to federally insured depository institutions, the Federal Reserve believes the guidance is broadly relevant to bank holding companies (BHCs) and their nonbank lending subsidiaries, as well as savings and loan holding companies (SLHCs). 2 Accordingly, examiners should con- sider the revised policy, as appropriate, in the inspection of consumer ﬁnance subsidiaries of BHCs and SLHCs. The following subsection presents the Uniform Retail Credit Classiﬁcation and Account Man- agement Policy with minor clarifying edits and updated references. See 65 Fed. Reg. 36,903, (June 12, 2000) for the original statement issued by the FFIEC. 2241.0.1 UNIFORM RETAIL CREDIT CLASSIFICA TION AND ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT POLICY The Uniform Retail Credit Classiﬁcation and Account Management Policy establishes stan- dards for the classiﬁcation and treatment of retail credit in ﬁnancial institutions. The agen- cies’ classiﬁcations used for retail credit are Substandard, Doubtful, and Loss. 3 These are deﬁned as follows: • Substandard: A Substandard asset is inad- equately protected by the current sound worth and paying capacity of the obligor, or of the collateral pledged, if any. Assets so classiﬁed must have a well-deﬁned weakness or weak- nesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the institution will sustain some loss if the deﬁciencies are not corrected. • Doubtful: An asset classiﬁed Doubtful has all the weaknesses inherent in one classiﬁed Sub- standard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable. • Loss: Assets classiﬁed Loss are considered uncollectible, and of such little value that their continuance as bankable assets is not war- ranted. This classiﬁcation does not mean that the asset has absolutely no recovery or sal- vage value; but rather, it is not practical or desirable to defer writing off this basically worthless asset, even though partial recovery may be effected in the future. Retail credit consists of open- and closed-end credit extended to individuals for household, family, and other personal expenditures, includ- ing consumer loans and credit cards. For pur- poses of this policy, retail credit also includes loans to individuals secured by their personal residence, including ﬁrst mortgage, home equity, and home-improvement loans. Because a retail-credit portfolio generally consists of a large number of relatively small-balance loans, evaluating the quality of the retail-credit port- 1. While the former Ofﬁce of Thrift Supervision also adopted the Uniform Retail Credit Classiﬁcation and Account Management Policy, the National Credit Union Administra- tion, also a member of the FFIEC, did not. 2. See SR-14-9, “Incorporation of Federal Reserve Policies into the Savings and Loan Holding Company Supervision Program.” 3. Although the Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC do not require institutions to adopt identical classiﬁcation deﬁnitions, institutions should classify their assets using a system that can be easily reconciled with the regulatory classiﬁcation system. BHC Supervision Manual February 2023 Page 1 folio on a loan-by-loan basis is inefﬁcient and burdensome for the institution being examined and for examiners. Actual credit losses on individual retail cred- its should be recorded when the institution becomes aware of the loss, but in no case should the charge-off exceed the time frames stated in this policy. This policy does not preclude an institution from adopting a more conservative internal policy. Based on collection experience, when a portfolio’s history reﬂects high losses and low recoveries, more conservative stan- dards are appropriate and necessary. The quality of retail credit is best indicated by the repayment performance of individual bor- rowers. Therefore, in general, retail credit should be classiﬁed based on the following criteria: 1. Open- and closed-end retail loans past due 90 cumulative days from the contractual due date should be classiﬁed as Substandard. 2. Closed-end retail loans that become past due 120 cumulative days, and open-end retail loans that become past due 180 cumulative days, from the contractual due date should be classiﬁed as Loss and charged off. 4 In lieu of charging off the entire loan balance, a loan with non-real estate collateral may be written down to the value of the collateral, less cost to sell, if repossession of collateral is assured and in process. 3. One- to four-family residential real estate loans and home equity loans that are past due 90 days or more with loan-to-value ratios greater than 60 percent should be classiﬁed as Substandard. Properly secured residential real estate loans with loan-to-value ratios equal to or less than 60 percent are generally not classiﬁed based solely on delinquency status. Home equity loans to the same bor- rower at the same institution as the senior mortgage loan with a combined loan-to-value ratio equal to or less than 60 percent need not be classiﬁed. However, home equity loans where the institution does not hold the senior mortgage, that are past due 90 days or more, should be classiﬁed as Substandard, even if the loan-to-value ratio is equal to or less than 60 percent. For open- and closed-end loans secured by residential real estate, a current assessment of value should be made no later than 180 days past due. Any outstanding loan balance in excess of the value of the property, less cost to sell, should be classiﬁed as Loss and charged off. 4. Loans in bankruptcy should be classiﬁed as Loss and charged off within 60 days of receipt of notiﬁcation of ﬁling from the bank- ruptcy court or within the time frames speci- ﬁed in this classiﬁcation policy, whichever is shorter, unless the institution can clearly demonstrate and document that repayment is likely to occur. Loans with collateral may be written down to the value of the collateral, less cost to sell. Any loan balance not charged off should be classiﬁed as Substan- dard until the borrower re-establishes the ability and willingness to repay for a period of at least six months. 5. Fraudulent loans should be classiﬁed as Loss and charged off no later than 90 days of discovery or within the time frames adopted in this classiﬁcation policy, whichever is shorter. 6. Loans of deceased persons should be classi- ﬁed as Loss and charged off when the loss is determined or within the time frames adopted in this classiﬁcation policy, whichever is shorter. 2241.0.1.1 Other Considerations for Classiﬁcation If an institution can clearly document that a past-due loan is well secured and in the process of collection, such that collection will occur regardless of delinquency status, then the loan need not be classiﬁed. A well-secured loan is collateralized by a perfected security interest in, or pledges of, real or personal property, includ- ing securities with an estimable value, less cost to sell, sufﬁcient to recover the recorded invest- ment in the loan, as well as a reasonable return on that amount. “In the process of collection” means that either a collection effort or legal action is proceeding and is reasonably expected to result in recovery of the loan balance or its restoration to a current status, generally within the next 90 days. 4. For operational purposes, whenever a charge-off is nec- essary under this policy, it should be taken no later than the end of the month in which the applicable time period elapses. Any full payment received after the 120- or 180-day charge- off threshold, but before month-end charge-off, may be con- sidered in determining whether the charge-off remains appro- priate. Open-end retail accounts that are placed on a ﬁxed repayment schedule should follow the charge-off time frame for closed-end loans. Retail Credit Classiﬁcation 2241.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2023 Page 2 2241.0.1.2 Partial Payments on Open- and Closed-End Credit An institution should use one of two methods to recognize partial payments. A payment equiva- lent to 90 percent or more of the contractual payment may be considered a full payment in computing past-due status. Alternatively, an institution may aggregate payments and give credit for any partial payment received. For example, if a regular installment payment is $300 and the borrower makes payments of only $150 per month for a six-month period, the institution could aggregate the payments received ($150 × 6 payments, or $900). The institution could then give credit for three full months ($300 x 3 payments) and thus treat the loan as three full months past due. An institution may use either or both methods in its portfolio, but may not use both methods simultaneously with a single loan. 2241.0.1.3 Re-aging, Extensions, Deferrals, Renewals, and Rewrites Re-aging of open-end accounts, and extensions, deferrals, renewals, and rewrites of closed-end loans can be used to help borrowers overcome temporary ﬁnancial difﬁculties, such as loss of job, medical emergency, or change in family circumstances like loss of a family member. 5 A permissive policy on re-agings, extensions, deferrals, renewals, or rewrites can cloud the true performance and delinquency status of the portfolio. However, prudent use is acceptable when it is based on a renewed willingness and ability to repay the loan, and when it is struc- tured and controlled in accordance with sound internal policies. Management should ensure that comprehen- sive and effective risk management and internal controls are established and maintained so that re-ages, extensions, deferrals, renewals, and rewrites can be adequately controlled and moni- tored by management and veriﬁed by examin- ers. The decision to re-age, extend, defer, renew, or rewrite a loan, like any other modiﬁcation of contractual terms, should be supported in the institution’s management information systems. Adequate management information systems usually identify and document any loan that is re-aged, extended, deferred, renewed, or rewrit- ten, including the number of times such action has been taken. Documentation normally shows that the institution’s personnel communicated with the borrower, the borrower agreed to pay the loan in full, and the borrower has the ability to repay the loan. To be effective, management information systems should also monitor and track the volume and performance of loans that have been re-aged, extended, deferred, renewed, or rewritten and/or placed in a workout program. 2241.0.1.4 Open-End Accounts Institutions that re-age open-end accounts should establish a reasonable written policy and adhere to it. To be considered for re-aging, an account should exhibit the following: 1. The borrower has demonstrated a renewed willingness and ability to repay the loan. 2. The account has existed for at least nine months. 3. The borrower has made at least three con- secutive minimum monthly payments or the equivalent cumulative amount. Funds may not be advanced by the institution for this purpose. Open-end accounts should not be re-aged more than once within any 12-month period and no more than twice within any 5-year period. Institutions may adopt a more conservative re-aging standard; for example, some institu- tions allow only one re-aging in the lifetime of an open-end account. Additionally, an over- limit account may be re-aged at its outstanding balance (including the over-limit balance, inter- est, and fees), provided that no new credit is extended to the borrower until the balance falls below the predelinquency credit limit. Institutions may re-age an account after it enters a workout program, including internal and third-party debt-counseling services, but 5. These terms are deﬁned as follows. Re-age: Returning a delinquent, open-end account to current status without collect- ing (at the time of aging) the total amount of principal, interest, and fees that are contractually due. Extension: Extending monthly payments on a closed-end loan and rolling back the maturity by the number of months extended. The account is shown current upon granting the extension. If extension fees are assessed, they should be collected at the time of the extension and not added to the balance of the loan. Deferral: Deferring a contractually due payment on a closed- end loan without affecting the other terms, including maturity, (or the due date for subsequently scheduled payments,) of the loan. The account is shown current upon granting the deferral. Renewal: Underwriting a matured, closed-end loan generally at its outstanding principal amount and on similar terms. Rewrite: Underwriting an existing loan by signiﬁcantly changing its terms, including payment amounts, interest rates, amortization schedules, or its ﬁnal maturity. Retail Credit Classiﬁcation 2241.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2023 Page 3 only after receipt of at least three consecutive minimum monthly payments or the equivalent cumulative amount, as agreed upon under the workout or debt-management program. Re-aging for workout purposes is limited to once in a 5-year period and is in addition to the once-in-12-months/twice-in-5-years limitation described above. To be effective, management information systems should track the principal reductions and charge-off history of loans in workout programs by type of program. 2241.0.1.5 Closed-End Loans Institutions should adopt and adhere to explicit standards that control the use of extensions, deferrals, renewals, and rewrites of closed-end loans. The standards should exhibit the following: 1. The borrower should show a renewed will- ingness and ability to repay the loan. 2. The standards should limit the number and frequency of extensions, deferrals, renewals, and rewrites. 3. Additional advances to ﬁnance unpaid inter- est and fees should be prohibited. Management should ensure that comprehen- sive and effective risk management, reporting, and internal controls are established and main- tained to support the collection process and to ensure timely recognition of losses. To be effec- tive, management information systems should track the subsequent principal reductions and charge-off history of loans that have been granted an extension, deferral, renewal, or rewrite. 2241.0.1.6 Examination Considerations Examiners should assess whether an institution adheres to this policy. Nevertheless, there may be instances that warrant exceptions to the gen- eral classiﬁcation policy. Loans need not be classiﬁed if the institution can document clearly that repayment will occur irrespective of delin- quency status. Examples might include loans well secured by marketable collateral and in the process of collection, loans for which claims are ﬁled against solvent estates, and loans supported by valid insurance claims. The Uniform Retail Credit Classiﬁcation and Account Management Policy does not preclude examiners from classifying individual retail- credit loans that exhibit signs of credit weakness regardless of delinquency status. Similarly, an examiner may also classify retail portfolios, or segments thereof, where underwriting standards are weak and present unreasonable credit risk, and may criticize account management practices that are deﬁcient. In addition to reviewing loan classiﬁcations, the examiner should assess whether the institu- tion’s allowance provides adequate coverage for probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Sound risk- and account-management systems, includ- ing a prudent retail-credit lending policy, mea- sures to ensure and monitor adherence to stated policy, and detailed operating procedures, should also be implemented. A bank’s internal controls should also conﬁrm adherence to its retail-credit lending policies. Institutions that lack sound policies or fail to implement or effec- tively adhere to established policies will be sub- ject to criticism as an unsafe and unsound practice. Retail Credit Classiﬁcation 2241.0 BHC Supervision Manual February 2023 Page 4 Domestic and Other Reports to Be Submitted to the Federal Reserve Section 2250.0 In carrying out its regulatory and supervisory responsibilities, the Board requires the submis- sion of various reports from bank holding com- panies. These reports are an integral part of the Board’s supervision, monitoring, and surveil- lance functions. Information from these reports is used to evaluate the performance of bank holding companies, appraise their ﬁnancial con- dition, and determine their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The examiner must review the reports (submitted to the Fed- eral Reserve System) for accuracy and timeli- ness and insist on their being amended if mate- rial errors are found. If inaccurate data are submitted, the resulting ratios could conceal deteriorating trends in the company’s ﬁnancial condition and performance. Bank holding com- panies should maintain sufﬁcient internal sys- tems and procedures to ensure that reporting is accomplished according to appropriate regula- tory requirements. Clear, concise, and orderly workpapers should support the data presented and provide a logical tie between report data and the ﬁnancial records. For detailed current information on who must submit reports and what the reporting requirements are, see the Board’s public site on the Internet at the following address: www.federalreserve.gov/ boarddocs/reportforms. 2250.0.1 PENALTIES FOR ERRORS IN REPORTS Section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act (the act) was amended to provide for the assess- ment of civil money penalties for the submis- sion of late, false, or misleading reports ﬁled by bank holding companies that are required by the act and Regulation Y and for the failure to ﬁle the required regulatory reports. Financial institu- tions that have adequate procedures to avoid any inadvertent errors but that unintentionally submit incorrect information or are minimally late in publishing or transmitting the reports can be ﬁned up to $2,000 per day. The ﬁnancial institution has the burden of proving that the error was inadvertent. If the error was not inad- vertent, a penalty of up to $20,000 per day can be assessed. If the submission was done in a knowing manner or with reckless disregard for the law, a ﬁne of up to $1 million or 1 percent of the institution’s assets can be assessed for each day of the violation. Institution-afﬁliated parties who participate in any manner in the ﬁling of an institution’s false or misleading required regula- tory report, or who cause the failure to ﬁle or a late ﬁling of a required regulatory report, may be assessed a civil money penalty of up to $25,000 per day. 2250.0.2 APPROV AL OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR OFFICERS OF DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811) was amended to require each insured depository institution and depository institution holding company to give 30 days’ prior notiﬁca- tion to the federal banking authority of (1) the proposed addition of any individual to its board of directors or (2) the employment of any indi- vidual as a senior executive ofﬁcer. This require- ment applies to the following institutions: 1. institutions that have been chartered less than two years 2. institutions that have undergone a change in control within the preceding two years 3. institutions that are in a troubled condition or whose capital is below minimum standards The agencies have the authority to issue a notice of disapproval to stop the appointment or employment of an individual if they feel that appointing or employing the person would not be in the interests of the public, taking into account that individual’s competence, experi- ence, character, and integrity. 2250.0.3 INSPECTION OBJECTIVES 1. To determine that required reports are being ﬁled on time. 2. To determine that the contents of reports are accurate and complete. 3. To recommend corrective and, if needed, for- mal enforcement action when ofﬁcial report- ing practices, policies, or procedures are deﬁcient. 2250.0.4 INSPECTION PROCEDURES 1. A bank holding company’s historical record concerning the timely submission of reports should be ascertained by reviewing relevant BHC Supervision Manual June 1999 Page 1 Reserve Bank ﬁles. The examiner should determine, from documentation in the ﬁles, which reports should have been ﬁled because of the passage of time or the occurrence of an event. If a report is delinquent, the bank holding company should be instructed to pre- pare and submit the report expeditiously. 2. Copies of regulatory reports ﬁled since the prior inspection should be reviewed and compared with company records on a ran- dom, line-by-line basis, using a signiﬁcance test. In some cases, the review will necessar- ily extend to supporting schedules and work- papers that substantiate the data reﬂected in the reports. If the initial reports reviewed are found to be substantially correct, then the scope of subsequent reviews may be cur- tailed. If the reports are found to be incorrect, the overall review procedures should be intensiﬁed. When an error or misstatement is considered signiﬁcant, the matter should be brought to management’s attention and the bank holding company should be required to submit adjusted data. Improper methods used in preparing reports should be called to man- agement’s attention. The examiner should explain all changes carefully and assist bank holding company personnel in whatever way possible to ensure proper reporting in future reports. 3. At the conclusion of the review process, the examiner should discuss the following with management, when applicable: a. inaccuracies found in reports and the need for submission of amended pages or reports b. violations of law, rulings, or regulations c. recommended corrective action when policies or procedures have contributed to deﬁciencies noted in the reports or the untimely submission of report(s) 4. Details concerning the late or inaccurate preparation of reports should be listed in the inspection report on the Other Supervisory Issues report page. If the matter is considered signiﬁcant, it should be noted on the Examin- er’s Comments and Matters Requiring Spe- cial Board Attention report page, as well. When the exceptions are considered minor and have been discussed with management and corrected, it will sufﬁce to state this on the Other Supervisory Issues workpaper sup- porting page. 5. When it is determined that false, misleading, or inaccurate information is contained in ﬁnancial statements or reports, consider whether formal enforcement action is needed to ensure that the offending bank holding company, ﬁnancial institution, or other entity under the holding company structure will correct the statements and reports. Domestic and Other Reports to Be Submitted to the Federal Reserve 2250.0 BHC Supervision Manual June 1999 Page 2 2250.0.5 LA WS, REGULA TIONS, INTERPRETA TIONS, AND ORDERS Subject Laws 1 Regulations 2 Interpretations 3 Orders Submission of reports concerning compliance with the act, or regulations or orders under it 1844(c) Annual reports 1844(c) 225.5(b) Report on intercompany transactions 1844(c) 225.5(b) Reports emanating from inspection report recommendations 1844(c) 225.5(b) Reports emanating from cease- and-desist orders 1818(b), (c) Civil money penalties for errors on bank call and BHC Reports 324 1847 1. 12 U.S.C., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 2. 12 C.F.R., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 3. Federal Reserve Regulatory Service reference. Domestic and Other Reports to Be Submitted to the Federal Reserve 2250.0 BHC Supervision Manual June 1999 Page 3 Venture Capital Section 2260.0 2260.0.1 INTRODUCTION Venture capital activities are usually conducted through one or more of the following types of entities: Small Business Investment Companies (SBIC); Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Companies (MESBIC); Non- licensed Venture Capital Companies; and Part- nerships or Venture Capital Funds. SBIC’s and MESBIC’s are licensed and regulated by the Small Business Administration (SBA); the other types are not. Both SBIC’s and MESBIC’s are limited by regulation to investing in and lending to small businesses; whereas, non-licensed ven- ture capital companies and partnerships have greater latitude. The activities of MESBIC’s (section 103d companies) are speciﬁcally lim- ited to small ﬁrms owned by socially or eco- nomically disadvantaged persons. Most banks and bank holding companies engage in venture capital activities through an SBIC because of its broad ability to take equity positions in other companies. SBIC’s are permitted to own up to 49.9 percent of the voting shares of a company. By contrast, a non-licensed venture capital com- pany that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company may not own more than 4.9 percent of the voting shares of a business. To escape from this limitation some bank holding companies have formed partnerships or venture capital funds. However, a bank holding company can only participate as a limited partner with an ownership interest not to exceed 24.9 percent. Limited partnerships are preferred by those bank holding companies who do not possess the expertise for this type of activity but seek the potential opportunity for high returns. Through the use of private capital and, in some cases, borrowed money, venture capital companies invest in and lend to new and grow- ing business enterprises. They prefer to invest in and lend to companies that exhibit strong man- agement talent and clearly deﬁned strategies. Many of the companies are yet unknown to the public. Their products either have been intro- duced to the market or are due to arrive in the next few years. Venture capital companies do not favor pioneering research. Instead, they are interested in ﬁnancing innovative products, i.e., those next in generation to existing ones, that have a wide market appeal and the potential for strong growth. Such products are preferred because of their shorter development time and possible faster realization of proﬁts. One of the ways a venture capital company makes money is by purchasing the common stock of an emerg- ing company and selling it when the company has grown and the stock has appreciated in value. It also generates earnings by making con- vertible preferred stock investments and by lending money in the form of subordinated debentures and term loans. Usually lending agreements contain provisions which enable a venture capital company to acquire shares or increase existing holdings through the exercise of warrants or stock options at a later date. Although in most cases some equity interest is taken, venture capital companies, generally, do not acquire a controlling interest in a business they ﬁnance. Once ﬁnancing commences, venture capital companies typically take an active role in the management of the companies. They usually receive representation on the company’s board of directors, which enables them to review bud- gets and assist in structuring the company’s long-range strategic plan. Guiding a company through its developing stages is considered essential for the achievement of equity apprecia- tion and realization of the high returns sought by venture capital companies. 2260.0.2 LOANS AND INVESTMENTS Investments and lending philosophy may differ among venture capital companies. Some choose to be equity-oriented; that is, they look for higher returns on investments through capital appreciation, while others favor lending in the form of loans or convertible debt securities which provide cash ﬂow to fund operations and service debt. However, most companies will strive for a diversiﬁed portfolio in terms of the type of investment and industry mix. The range of ﬁnancing possibilities associated with lend- ing and/or investing is as follows: BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 1 First Step Financing Funds needed for seed capital to help develop an idea. Start-up Financing Funds needed to cover the cost of preparing a business plan, conducting market studies and opening a business. First Stage Financing Funds needed to start manufacturing and selling the product(s). Second Stage Financing Funds needed for working capital to expand production and build inventories. Company is operating but not yet proﬁtable. Third Stage Financing Funds needed to improve the product, build working capital and expand marketing and production facilities. At this point, the com- pany should be generating a proﬁt. Fourth Stage Financing Additional working capital funds needed prior to initial public offering which may be as much as a year later. In addition to the above, venture capital com- panies will consider ﬁnancing leveraged buy- outs and turnaround situations. The degree of risk assumed varies according to the stage of ﬁnancing, i.e., lower stages con- tain greater risk because of the requirement for longer-term investment discipline than higher stages. Investments in start-up companies typi- cally take ﬁve to seven years or more to mature. Because of the high risk involved, most bank- afﬁliated venture capital companies will avoid the earlier or lower stages of ﬁnancing. Newly established venture capital companies and espe- cially those that use leverage tend to focus on the intermediate and latter stages of ﬁnancing. These stages are represented primarily by debenture ﬁnancing, preferred stock invest- ments, and straight term loans. In structuring a portfolio, a venture capitalist should consider both liquidity and capital protection. The ideal ﬁnancing mix might entail a limited amount of money invested in common stock with the remainder distributed between debentures, loans, and preferred stock. These instruments will provide income to cover operating expenses and service debt as well as give some protection should the business start to decline. Limited holdings of common stock give the company the opportunity to enhance earnings through capital gains without adversely effecting cash ﬂow. Regardless of the type of ﬁnancing offered, the ability to exist from an investment or loan through either the issuance of public stock or a cash buyout by a larger company is the goal of a venture capital company. 2260.0.3 FUNDING A venture capital company may use private capital, leverage, or a combination of both to fund its portfolio of loans and investments. Ven- ture capital companies obtain private capital from their parent organization, either banks or bank holding companies. Generally, private capital is used to fund high-risk, lower-stage investments, although some companies may diversify their portfolio and deploy a portion of capital in loans, debentures and preferred stock. Leverage may be derived from internal and external borrowings. SBIC’s that are banking subsidiaries may receive funding in the form of loans from their parent bank. For those compa- nies that are a subsidiary of a bank holding company, internal funding may be provided by the bank holding company from internal cash ﬂow or its external borrowing sources. A bank holding company might borrow from its avail- able bank lines or other borrowing sources to fund venture capital operations. There is, how- ever, one exception; that is, the use of commer- cial paper proceeds to fund venture capital investments and loans does not appear to qualify under the exemptive provisions of section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933. SBIC’s and MESBIC’s can obtain external ﬁnancing from the U.S. government and the private sector, while, non-licensed venture capital companies are limited to only private sources for their external ﬁnancing. Under current SBA regula- tions, an SBIC can borrow up to $35 million from the federal ﬁnancing bank with no limit as to the aggregate amount of private debt. Because of the investment restrictions on MESBIC’s, the SBA allows them to incur higher leverage. Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 2 MESBIC’s are permitted to borrow up to four times their capital base and issue preferred stock to the SBA up to two times their capital base. MESBIC’s also have no limit on the aggregate amount of private debt. All government borrow- ings ings are through the federal ﬁnancing bank and carry the guarantee of the SBA. Such bor- rowings are classiﬁed as senior debt. 2260.0.4 PROFITABILITY Earnings of venture capital companies can ﬂuc- tuate widely depending on the nature of their activities. Those companies that blend their portfolios with loans, debentures and preferred stock investments tend to be more predictable and less erratic in earnings performance than companies that are strictly equity-oriented. The difference being that loans, debentures and pre- ferred stock provide income to cover operating expenses and debt service requirements, while common stock investments may not yield posi- tive returns for several years. Portfolio diversiﬁ- cation tends to smooth out earnings, although the potential for major ﬂuctuations in earnings exists in the future should capital gains be real- ized on equity investments. In measuring earn- ings performance, one should consider the com- bination of net realized earnings (net investment income plus net realized gains (losses) on sale of investments) and net unrealized appreciation or depreciation on investment holdings found in the capital structure of the balance sheet. It is not uncommon to see aggregate returns on capi- tal reach 50 or more. Typically, returns of this magnitude are inﬂuenced by either large gains realized on the sale of investments or a substantial amount of unrealized appreciation on investments held or a combination of both. Appreciation or depre- ciation in portfolio investments represents potential realized gains or losses and, therefore, should be considered in evaluating the com- pany’s earnings performance. Speciﬁcally, the change in year-to-year net unrealized apprecia- tion or depreciation is a factor that should be considered in analyzing results. When measur- ing the company’s contribution to consolidated earnings, net unrealized appreciation or depre- ciation should be ignored. 2260.0.5 CAPITALIZA TION In addition to the usual equity components of capital stock, surplus and retained earnings, the capital structure of a venture capital company includes a separate category for net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on equity interests. Net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on equity interests represents the gross amount reported under loans and investments less an appropriate provision for taxes. Since unreal- ized appreciation (depreciation) on equity inter- ests represents future proﬁts (losses) they are measured separately in the equity account rather than in earnings. There are no industry norms with which to measure capital adequacy. What is known, how- ever, is that the SBA requires a minimum capital investment of $1,000,000 to establish an SBIC. Moreover, regulations governing SBIC’s limit the dollar amount of investments and/or loans to a single customer to 20 percent of an SBIC’s capital base. Although banks are limited by statute to a maximum capital investment in an SBIC of 4.9 percent of their primary capital, statistics show that SBIC’s have substantially less than this limit. By contrast, there are no restrictions as to the amount of capital that a bank holding company may invest in a nonbank afﬁliated venture capital company. Dependence on capital to fund portfolio loans and invest- ments seems to be preferred as the cost of leverage, at present, cannot provide meaningful spreads. It can be assumed that the larger the capital position the higher the dollar amount available for investing and/or lending to a single customer. Sustained proﬁtability and satisfactory asset quality are required to maintain ﬁnancial sound- ness and capital adequacy. The SBA will con- sider an SBIC’s capital as impaired if net unreal- ized depreciation and/or operating losses equal 50 percent or more of its capital base. It would seem appropriate to use this guideline for mea- suring the adequacy of capital of non-licensed venture capital companies that are afﬁliated with a bank holding company. 2260.0.6 INSPECTION OBJECTIVES 1. To determine whether the company is operating within the scope of its approved activities and within the provisions of the Act and Regulation Y . 2. To determine whether transactions with afﬁliates, especially banks, are in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations. 3. To determine the quality of the asset port- folios and whether the allowance for losses is Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 3 adequate in relation to portfolio risk and whether the nonaccrual policy is appropriate. 4. To determine the viability of the company as a going concern, and whether its afﬁliate status represents a potential or actual adverse inﬂuence upon the parent holding company and its afﬁliated bank and nonbank subsidiaries and the condition of the consolidated corporation. 5. To determine whether the company has formal written policies and procedures relating to lending and investing. 6. To determine if such policies and proce- dures are adequate and that management is operating in conformance with the established policies. 7. To assess management’s ability to operate the company in a safe and sound manner. 8. To suggest corrective action when poli- cies, practices or procedures are deﬁcient, or when asset quality is weak, or when violations of laws or regulations have been noted. 2260.0.7 INSPECTION PROCEDURES 2260.0.7.1 Pre-Inspection All SBIC’s and MESBIC’s are subject to com- prehensive regulations and annual examinations administered by the SBA. Therefore, it is not necessary to conduct a full scope inspection of these subsidiaries. The bank holding company inspection should focus on the quality of assets, as disclosed in the annual director’s valuation and ﬁnancial statements submitted to the SBA on an annual basis, transactions with afﬁliates and an overall ﬁnancial evaluation. The decision whether the operations of a non-licensed venture capital company will be inspected ‘‘on-site’’ is based on the availability and adequacy of data from either the parent holding company or that which is obtained upon request from the subsidiary. The following information should be obtained and thoroughly reviewed prior to making a decision to go ‘‘on- site’’: 1. Minutes of the board and executive com- mittee meetings since inception of company or the date of the previous inspection; 2. Comparative interim and ﬁscal ﬁnancial statements containing value accounting adjust- ments, including the year-end ﬁling with the SBA; 3. Listing of contingent liabilities, including any pending material litigation; 4. Latest director’s valuation of loans and investments and results of latest internal loan or credit review; 5. Copies of the most recent internal and external audit reports; 6. Trial balance of all loans and investments, indicating the percent ownership of a company involving an equity interest; 7. Listing of loans, debentures and preferred stock on which scheduled payments are in arrears 30 days or more or on which payments are otherwise not being made according to origi- nal terms; 8. Details of internal and external borrowing arrangements; and 9. Any agreements, guarantees or pledges between the subsidiary and its parent holding company or afﬁliates. After reviewing the above information, a decision whether or not to conduct an on-site inspection must be made. Some of the determi- nants of this decision would include: relative size; current level and trend of earnings; asset quality as indicated in the director’s valuation of loans and investments; and the condition of the company when last inspected. From the infor- mation provided, it might be determined that the company is operating properly and is in sound condition. In such a case, an on-site inspection may not be warranted. Conversely, a deteriorat- ing condition might be detected which would warrant a visit even though a satisfactory condi- tion had been determined during the previous inspection. All non-licensed venture capital companies should be inspected on-site at least once every three years. 2260.0.7.2 On-Site Inspection If the decision was made to conduct an ‘‘on- site’’ inspection of the subsidiary, the examiner should expand the scope of the review to include these additional procedures: 1. Hold a brief meeting with the chief execu- tive ofﬁcer of the company to establish contact and present a brief indication of the scope of the inspection; 2. Review the company’s policy statements for loans, investments, nonaccruals, and charge- offs; 3. Review the latest internal review by the company’s directors or the loan review depart- ment of the bank afﬁliate or bank holding company; 4. Conduct an independent review of the portfolio; Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 4 a. Establish the minimum dollar of loans and investments to be reviewed to achieve at least 70 percent coverage of the portfolio; b. Review loans and investments in sample, giving consideration to the following: • Latest balance sheet and income data; • Proﬁtability projections; • Product(s) being produced by customer and their market acceptance; • Business plan; • Extent of relationship with customer; • Funding sources; and • Ultimate source of repayment. c. Discuss the more serious problem loans and investments with management; d. Classify, if necessary, those loans and investments that exhibit serious weaknesses where collectibility is problematical or worse. Lower classiﬁcation criteria must accompany these assets, which possess a higher degree of credit risk than found in other types of nonbank lending; e. Determine the diversiﬁcation of risk within the portfolio, i.e., the mix of loans and investments and the type of industries ﬁnanced; f. Review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine the reasonableness of the amount of unrealized appreciation or depreciation reported on the balance sheet in conjunction with the asset evaluation; and g. Determine whether the board of direc- tors or parent holding company has established credit limits for the maximum amount of loans and investments to be extended to a single cus- tomer. Verify adherence to the limits. 5. Review equity investments for compliance with the 4.9 percent maximum limitation to any one customer; 6. Verify ofﬁce locations and activities with system approvals; 7. Compare company’s general ledger with statements prepared for the latest FR Y–6; 8. Review the quality and liquidity of other investment holdings; 9. Review and classify, if necessary, assets acquired in liquidation of a customer’s business due to default. Determine compliance of divesti- ture period with section 4(c)(2) of The Bank Holding Company Act; 10. Review the manner and frequency in which subsidiary management reports to the parent holding company; 11. Follow-up on matters criticized in the most recent audit reports and the previous inspection report on the subsidiary; and 12. Assess the expertise of subsidiary man- agement and awareness of subsidiary directors. 2260.0.7.3 Matters Warranting Recommendation in Inspection Report Deﬁciencies or concerns that warrant citation in the inspection report for the attention of man- agement are: 1. Lack of policies and/or controls in the lending and investing functions; 2. Improper diversiﬁcation of risk in the loan and investment portfolio; 3. Adverse tie-in arrangements with the afﬁliate bank(s): 4. Lack of management expertise; 5. Impairment of capital as a result of operat- ing losses or high unrealized depreciation on equity interests or a combination of both; and 6. Lack of adequate reporting procedures to parent holding company management. Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 5 2260.0.8 LA WS, REGULA TIONS, INTERPRETA TIONS AND ORDERS Subject Laws 1 Regulations 1 Interpretations 3 Orders Acquisition of SBIC by a bank holding company 1843(c)(8) 1843(c)(5) 225.111 4–173 4–175 4–174 Limitations of an SBIC’s control over business enterprises 13 C.F.R. 107.901(a) Criteria for various types of business investments of an SBIC 13 C.F.R. 121.3–10 13 C.F.R. 121.3–11 Acquisition of a non-licensed venture capital company by a bank holding company 1843(c)(8) 225.112 Formation of joint ventures (limited partnerships) for purpose of conducting venture capital activities 1843(c)(6) Limitation on equity interests of a non-licensed venture capital company afﬁliated with a bank holding company 1843(c)(6) Loans to afﬁliates— Section 23A of FR Act 371c Restrictions on transactions with afﬁliates 371c Acquisition of shares acquired DPC 1843(c)(2) Acquisition of assets acquired DPC 1843(c)(2) 225.132 4–175.1 1. 12 U.S.C., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 2. 12 C.F.R., unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. 3. Federal Reserve Regulatory Service reference. Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 6 2260.0.9 APPENDIX 1—VENTURE CAPITAL COMPANY SAMPLE BALANCE SHEET December 31, 19XX ASSETS Cash XXXX Money Market investments XXXX Loans and investments XXXX Loans XXXX Debt securities XXXX Equity interests XXXX Total loans and investments XXXX Less: Allowance for losses on loans and investments XXXX Plus: Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on equity interests XXXX Net loans and investments XXXX Interest and dividends receivable XXXX Assets acquired in liquidation of loans and investments XXXX Other assets XXXX Total assets XXXX LIABILITIES Notes payable—afﬁliates XXXX Notes payable—others XXXX Accrued taxes payable XXXX Deferred tax credits XXXX Other liabilities XXXX Total liabilities XXXX STOCKHOLDER’S EQUITY Common stock (par value XXX) XXXX Surplus XXXX Retained earnings XXXX Net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of equity interests XXXX Total stockholder’s equity XXXX Total liabilities and stockholder’s equity XXXX Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 7 2260.0.10 APPENDIX 2—VENTURE CAPITAL COMPANY—SAMPLE INCOME STA TEMENT For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 19XX INTEREST INCOME Interest on loans and debt securities XXX Dividends on equity interests XXX Interest on money market investments XXX Total interest income XXX INTEREST EXPENSE Interest on notes payable to afﬁliates XXX Interest on notes payable to others XXX Total interest expense XXX NET INTEREST INCOME XXX PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES XXX Net interest after provision for loan losses XXX OTHER REVENUE Income from assets acquired in liquidation of loans and investments XXX Management Fees XXX Total other revenue XXX Net interest and other revenue XXX NONINTEREST EXPENSE Salaries and beneﬁts XXX Management and service fees XXX Other expenses XXX Total noninterest expense XXX Income before taxes XXX Applicable taxes XXX Net investment income XXX Realized gain (loss) on sale of securities, net of tax XXX Net income XXX Venture Capital 2260.0 BHC Supervision Manual December 1992 Page 8