Return to Liberty Street Economics Home Page 34 posts on "Repo" April 6, 2026 The Fed Has Two Tools to Influence Money Market Conditions Adam Copeland and Owen Engbretson The Federal Reserve’s 2022-23 tightening cycle involved the use of two monetary policy tools: changes in administrative rates and changes in the size of its balance sheet. This post highlights the results of a recent Staff Report that explores how these tools affect money market conditions. Using confidential trade-level data, we find that both tools have significant effects on the pricing of funds sourced through repo. These results suggest that the Fed can manage how financing conditions are affected even as it influences economic conditions. For example, the Fed can lower its administrative rates to loosen economic conditions, while shrinking its balance sheet to maintain financing conditions in the money markets. Continue reading » Posted at 8:51 am in Federal Reserve , Monetary Policy , Repo | Permalink | Comments (0) October 8, 2025 The Rise of Sponsored Service for Clearing Repo Adam Copeland and R. Jay Kahn Recently instituted rule amendments have initiated a large migration of dealer-to-client Treasury repurchase trades to central clearing. To date, the main avenue used to access central clearing is Sponsored Service, a clearing product that has, until now, received little attention. This post highlights the results from a recent Staff Report which presents a deep dive into Sponsored Service. Here, we summarize the description of the institutional details of this service and its costs and benefits. We then document some basic facts on how market participants use this service, based on confidential data. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Financial Markets , Repo , Treasury | Permalink August 14, 2024 ­­A New Set of Indicators of Reserve Ampleness Gara Afonso, Kevin Clark, Brian Gowen, Gabriele La Spada, JC Martinez, Jason Miu, and Will Riordan The Federal Reserve (Fed) implements monetary policy in a regime of ample reserves , where short-term interest rates are controlled mainly through the setting of administered rates, and active management of the reserve supply is not required. In yesterday’s post , we proposed a methodology to evaluate the ampleness of reserves in real time based on the slope of the reserve demand curve—the elasticity of the federal (fed) funds rate to reserve shocks. In this post, we propose a suite of complementary indicators of reserve ampleness that, jointly with our elasticity measure, can help policymakers ensure that reserves remain ample as the Fed shrinks its balance sheet. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Federal Reserve , Monetary Policy , Repo | Permalink December 19, 2023 Dropping Like a Stone: ON RRP Take‑up in the Second Half of 2023 Gara Afonso, Marco Cipriani, and Gabriele La Spada Take-up at the Overnight Reverse Repo Facility (ON RRP) has halved over the past six months, declining by more than $1 trillion since June 2023. This steady decrease follows a rapid increase from close to zero in early 2021 to $2.2 trillion in December 2022, and a period of relatively stable balances during the first half of 2023. In this post, we interpret the recent drop in ON RRP take-up through the lens of the channels that we identify in our recent Staff Report as driving its initial increase. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Fed Funds , Federal Reserve , Monetary Policy , Repo | Permalink May 8, 2023 Are There Too Many Ways to Clear and Settle Secured Financing Transactions? Adam Copeland, Frank Keane, and Jenny Phan The New York Fed’s Treasury Market Practices Group (TMPG) recently released a consultative white paper on clearing and settlement processes for secured financing trades (SFT) involving U.S. Treasury securities. The paper describes the many ways that Treasury SFTs are cleared and settled— information that may not be readily available to all market participants. It also identifies potential risk and resiliency issues, and so promotes discussion about whether current practices have room for improvement. This work is timely given the SEC’s ongoing efforts to improve transparency and lower systemic risk in the Treasury market by increasing the prevalence of central clearing. In this post, we summarize the current state of clearing and settlement for Treasury SFTs and highlight some of the key risks described in the white paper. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Financial Markets , Repo , Treasury | Permalink April 11, 2022 The Fed’s Balance Sheet Runoff and the ON RRP Facility Marco Cipriani, James Clouse, Lorie Logan, Antoine Martin, and Will Riordan A 2017 Liberty Street Economics post described the balance sheet effects of the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision to cease reinvestments of maturing securities—that is, the mechanics of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet “runoff.” At the time, the overnight reverse repo ( ON RRP ) facility was fairly small (less than $200 billion for most of July 2017) and was not mentioned in the post for the sake of simplicity. Today, by contrast, take-up at the ON RRP facility is much larger (over $1.5 trillion for most of 2022). In this post, we update the earlier analysis and describe how the presence of the ON RRP facility affects the mechanics of the balance sheet runoff. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Central Bank , COVID-19 Facilities , Federal Reserve , Monetary Policy , Repo | Permalink | Comments (3) January 13, 2022 The Fed’s Latest Tool: A Standing Repo Facility Gara Afonso, Lorie Logan, Antoine Martin, William Riordan, and Patricia Zobel In July 2021, the Federal Open Market Committee announced a new tool for monetary policy implementation: a domestic standing repurchase agreement facility. In the last post of this series, we explain what this new tool is and how it will support the effective implementation of monetary policy in the floor system through which the Fed implements policy. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Federal Reserve , Monetary Policy , Repo | Permalink January 11, 2022 How the Fed’s Overnight Reverse Repo Facility Works Gara Afonso, Lorie Logan, Antoine Martin, William Riordan, and Patricia Zobel Daily take-up at the overnight reverse repo (ON RRP) facility increased from less than $1 billion in early March 2021 to just under $2 trillion on December 31, 2021. In the second post in this series, we take a closer look at this important tool in the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy implementation framework and discuss the factors behind the recent increase in volume. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Bank Capital , Banks , Central Bank , COVID-19 Facilities , Credit , Crisis , Fed Funds , Federal Reserve , Financial Institutions , Monetary Policy , Pandemic , Repo | Permalink July 14, 2021 Intraday Timing of General Collateral Repo Markets Kevin Clark, Adam Copeland, R. Jay Kahn, Antoine Martin, Mark Paddrik, and Benjamin Taylor Kevin Clark, Adam Copeland, R. Jay Kahn, Antoine Martin, Mark Paddrik, and Benjamin Taylor Market participants have often noted that general collateral (GC) repo trades happen very early in the morning, with most activity being completed soon after markets open at 7 a.m. Data on intraday repo volumes timing are not publicly available however, obscuring […] Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Repo | Permalink February 18, 2021 How Competitive are U.S. Treasury Repo Markets? Adam Copeland, R. Jay Kahn, Antoine Martin, Matthew McCormick, William Riordan, Kevin Clark, and Tim Wessel The Treasury repo market is at the center of the U.S. financial system, serving as a source of secured funding as well as providing liquidity for Treasuries in the secondary market. Recently, results published by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) raised concerns that the repo market may be dominated by as few as four banks . In this post, we show that the secured funding portion of the repo market is competitive by demonstrating that trading is not concentrated overall and explaining how the pricing of inter-dealer repo trades is available to a wide-range of market participants. By extension, rate-indexes based on repo trades, such as SOFR , reflect a deep market with a broad set of participants. Continue reading » Posted at 7:00 am in Bank Capital , Banks , Financial Institutions , Financial Markets , Liquidity , Repo , Treasury | Permalink More Posts »