TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Federal Reserve Board - Proposals For Comment
URL: https://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/proposals/search?docTypes=Rulemaking%20Proposal
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Home Proposals For Comment Proposals For Comment Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below. The Board has requested public comment on the proposals listed below. Comments can be submitted through this web site using the "Submit Comment" links (the preferred method of submission). The submission form allows for attachments. Comments may also be submitted in writing or by electronic mail (see text of each proposal for contact information). Please note the closing date for each comment period. Comments received are subject to public disclosure. In general, comments received will be made available without change and will not be modified to remove personal or business information including confidential, contact, or other identifying information. Comments should not include any information such as confidential information that would not be appropriate for public disclosure. Comments posted to this website can be located on the "Comments" tab below. Comment filtering options may not be available for some comments. Submit Proposal Search Document Type Clear Document Type Rulemaking Proposal Information Collection Proposal System of Records Notice Other Proposal Posted Today (0) Last 7 Days (1) Last 15 Days (1) Last 30 Days (4) Last 90 Days (5) Comments Due Today (0) Next 7 Days (0) Next 15 Days (1) Next 30 Days (1) Next 90 Days (5) Results Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks and Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service and the FedNow Service [R-1891] Rulemaking Proposal The Board is proposing amendments to subpart C of Regulation J (governing the FedNow® Service) to permit FedNow participants to use intermediaries, other than Reserve Banks, to send funds transfers through the FedNow Service. The Board believes this change could support private-sector cross-border payment solutions by allowing FedNow participants to leverage an intermediary (for example, a correspondent bank) for the international portion of a cross-border transaction and use the FedNow Service for the U.S. domestic portion. Comments Due: 06/09/2026 Submit Comment View Comments GSIB-Regulatory Capital Rule: Risk-Based Capital Surcharges for Global Systemically Important Bank Holding Companies; Systemic Risk Report (FR Y-15) [R-1889] Rulemaking Proposal The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) is inviting public comment on a notice of proposed rulemaking to amend the Board’s rule that identifies and establishes risk-based capital surcharges for U.S. global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs). The proposal would also amend the Systemic Risk Report (FR Y-15), which is the source of inputs to the implementation of the GSIB framework under the capital rule. The proposal would make several changes to better align surcharges with risk. First, it would modify certain coefficients used to calculate GSIB surcharges under method 2 of the GSIB surcharge framework to reflect changes in the financial system and the economy and provide for annual adjustments for real economic growth and inflation going forward. Second, the proposal would modify the measurement and weighting of the weighted short-term wholesale funding systemic indicator. Third, for certain systemic indicators currently measured as of a single date each year, the proposal would require measurement based on average values to reduce the effects of temporary changes to indicator values around measurement dates. Fourth, the proposal would reduce cliff effects and enhance the sensitivity of the surcharge to changes in a GSIB’s systemic risk profile. Fifth, to improve risk capture, the proposal would also make improvements to the measurement of some systemic indicators used in the GSIB surcharge framework and the framework for determining prudential standards for large banking organizations. In addition to these changes, the proposal would make several amendments to the FR Y-15 to improve the consistency of data reporting and streamline the reporting process. Comments Due: 06/18/2026 Submit Comment View Comments Regulatory Capital Rules: Regulatory Capital and Standardized Approach for Risk-weighted Assets [R-1888] Rulemaking Proposal The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are proposing to modify certain aspects of the regulatory capital rule (the proposal). The proposal would revise the risk-based capital treatment of certain exposure categories under the standardized approach, focusing on improving the calibration and risk sensitivity of risk weights that are particularly material to covered banking organizations’ lending activities. The proposal would also modify the definition of regulatory capital by removing the threshold-based deduction for mortgage servicing assets for all banking organizations subject to the regulatory capital rule, including banking organizations subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework. In addition, the proposal would require Category III and IV banking organizations to recognize most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income in their regulatory capital. The agencies are concurrently publishing a separate proposal, which would require Category I and II banking organizations to use a new framework to calculate risk-weighted assets, called the expanded risk-based approach and would allow other banking organizations to elect to use the expanded risk-based approach. Comments Due: 06/18/2026 Submit Comment View Comments Regulatory Capital Rule: Category I and II Banking Organizations, Banking Organizations with Significant Trading Activity, and Optional Adoption for Other Banking Organizations [R-1887] Rulemaking Proposal The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are proposing to modernize the capital requirements applicable to Category I and II depository institution holding companies and depository institutions, as well as revise the market risk capital framework for banking organizations with significant trading activity (the proposal). The proposal would improve the regulatory capital framework for covered banking organizations by enhancing its risk sensitivity and consistency and by simplifying core components of its design. The agencies expect the proposal would support the safety and soundness of covered banking organizations and U.S. financial stability while promoting lending and other financial intermediation activities in the banking system over a range of economic conditions. Comments Due: 06/18/2026 Submit Comment View Comments Prohibition on Use of Reputation Risk or Other Supervisory Tools to Encourage or Compel Banking Organizations to Engage in Politicized or Unlawful Discrimination [R-1884] Rulemaking Proposal The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) is inviting public comment on a notice of proposed rulemaking (proposal or proposed rule) that would codify the removal of reputation risk from the Board’s supervisory programs. The proposal would prohibit the Board from encouraging or compelling Board-supervised banking organizations to deny or condition the provision of banking or other financial products or services to an individual or business based on their constitutionally protected political or religious beliefs, associations, speech, or conduct, or based on involvement by the individual or business in politically disfavored but lawful business activities perceived to present reputation risk. Comments Due: 04/27/2026 Submit Comment View Comments CBLR - Regulatory Capital Rule: Revisions to the Community Bank Leverage Ratio Framework [R-1876] Rulemaking Proposal The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are inviting public comment on a notice of proposed rulemaking (proposal) that would lower the community bank leverage ratio (CBLR) requirement for certain depository institutions and depository institution holding companies from 9 percent to 8 percent, consistent with the lower bound provided in section 201 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. The proposal would also extend the length of time that certain depository institutions or depository institution holding companies can remain in the CBLR framework while not meeting all of the qualifying criteria for the CBLR framework from two quarters to four quarters, subject to a limit of eight quarters in any five-year period. Comments Due: 01/30/2026 Submit Comment View Comments Enhanced Transparency and Public Accountability of the Supervisory Stress Test Models and Scenarios; Modifications to the Capital Planning and Stress Capital Buffer Requirement Rule, Enhanced Prudential Standards Rule, and Regulation LL [R-1873] Rulemaking Proposal The Board is inviting public comment on the models used to conduct the Board’s supervisory stress test, changes to those models to be implemented in the 2026 stress test, and proposed changes to enhance the transparency and public accountability of the Board’s stress testing framework (the proposal). The proposal would amend the Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing, including to implement guides for additional scenario variables, and the Stress Testing Policy Statement. The proposal would also codify an enhanced disclosure process under which the Board would annually publish comprehensive documentation on the stress test models, invite public comment on any material changes that the Board seeks to make to those models, and annually publish the stress test scenarios for comment. Lastly, the proposal would make changes to the FR Y-14A/Q/M to remove items that are no longer needed to conduct the supervisory stress test and to collect additional data to support the stress test models and improve risk capture. Comments Due: 02/21/2026 Submit Comment View Comments EGRPRA: Banking Operations, Capital, and the Community Reinvestment Act [OP-1828] Economic Growth And Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act Pursuant to the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996 (EGRPRA), the OCC, Board, and FDIC (collectively, the agencies) are reviewing agency regulations to identify outdated or otherwise unnecessary regulatory requirements on insured depository institutions and their holding companies. Since February 2024, the agencies published three Federal Register documents requesting comment on multiple categories of regulations. This fourth Federal Register document requests comment on the final three categories of regulations: Banking Operations, Capital, and the Community Reinvestment Act. Comments Due: 10/23/2025 Submit Comment View Comments Community Reinvestment Act Regulations [R-1869] Rulemaking Proposal The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) (collectively, the agencies) propose to amend their Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) regulations by rescinding the final rule titled “Community Reinvestment Act” published in the Federal Register on February 1, 2024, and replacing it with the agencies’ CRA regulations in effect on March 29, 2024, with certain conforming and technical amendments. The agencies are also proposing technical amendments to their regulations implementing the CRA sunshine requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and the OCC is proposing technical amendments to its Public Welfare Investments regulation. Comments Due: 08/18/2025 Submit Comment View Comments SLR-Enhanced Supplementary Leverage Ratio [R-1867] Rulemaking Proposal The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are inviting public comment on a notice of proposed rulemaking to modify the enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards applicable to U.S. bank holding companies identified as global systemically important bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries. Comments Due: 08/26/2025 Submit Comment View Comments Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next Trying to reconnect...