TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: The Fed - 1. Asset Valuations - Federal Reserve Board
URL: https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/April-2024-financial-stability-report-asset-valuations.htm
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Home Publications Financial Stability Report Financial Stability Report - April 2024 Financial Stability Report - April 2024 PDF Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below. Purpose and Framework Overview 1. Asset Valuations 2. Borrowing by Businesses and Households 3. Leverage in the Financial Sector 4. Funding Risks 5. Near-Term Risks to the Financial System 1. Asset Valuations Asset valuations increased to elevated levels relative to fundamentals Since the October report, equity valuations increased further. Valuations in corporate bond markets also appeared stretched as corporate credit spreads, the difference in yields on corporate bond and yields on similar-maturity Treasury securities, narrowed since the previous report, falling to levels in the lower range of their historical distributions. Liquidity in short-term Treasury markets remained low by historical standards, although market liquidity was consistent with elevated measures of interest rate volatility. Nonetheless, Treasury market liquidity conditions could amplify the impact of shocks on asset valuations. Residential real estate valuations remained near the peak levels seen in the mid-2000s. CRE market conditions continued to deteriorate, especially for the office sector, and prices continued to decline against a backdrop of high vacancy rates and weakening rents. Farmland prices were historically elevated relative to rents, reflecting limited inventories of land. Table 1.1 shows the sizes of the asset markets discussed in this section. The largest asset markets are those for equities, residential real estate, Treasury securities, and CRE. Table 1.1. Size of selected asset markets Item Outstanding (billions of dollars) Growth, 2022:Q4–2023:Q4 (percent) Average annual growth, 1997–2023:Q4 (percent) Equities 57,175 22.2 9.2 Residential real estate 56,415 3.6 6.2 Treasury securities 26,227 10.0 8.2 Commercial real estate 22,518 −6.3 6.4 Investment-grade corporate bonds 7,533 5.4 8.1 Farmland 3,420 7.7 5.8 High-yield and unrated corporate bonds 1,631 −2.6 6.2 Leveraged loans 1 1,397 −1.1 13.2 Price growth (real) Commercial real estate 2 −1.3 3.1 Residential real estate 3 2.1 2.7 Note: The data extend through 2023:Q4. Growth rates are measured from Q4 of the year immediately preceding the period through Q4 of the final year of the period. Equities, real estate, and farmland are at nominal market value; bonds and loans are at nominal book value. 1. The amount outstanding shows institutional leveraged loans and generally excludes loan commitments held by banks. For example, lines of credit are generally excluded from this measure. Average annual growth of leveraged loans is from 2000 to 2023:Q4, as this market was fairly small before then. Return to table 2. One-year growth of commercial real estate prices is from December 2022 to December 2023, and average annual growth is from December 1999 to December 2023. Both growth rates are calculated from equal-weighted nominal prices deflated using the consumer price index (CPI). Return to table 3. One-year growth of residential real estate prices is from December 2022 to December 2023, and average annual growth is from December 1998 to December 2023. Nominal prices are deflated using the CPI. Return to table Source: For leveraged loans, PitchBook Data, Leveraged Commentary & Data; for corporate bonds, Mergent, Inc., Fixed Income Securities Database; for farmland, Department of Agriculture; for residential real estate price growth, CoreLogic, Inc.; for commercial real estate price growth, CoStar Group, Inc., CoStar Commercial Repeat Sale Indices; for all other items, Federal Reserve Board, Statistical Release Z.1, "Financial Accounts of the United States." Treasury yields decreased slightly and remain high relative to the past 15 years Yields on Treasury securities decreased slightly since the October report but remained close to their highest levels over the past decade and a half ( figure 1.1 ). A model-based estimate of the nominal Treasury term premium—a measure of the compensation that investors require to hold longer-term Treasury securities rather than shorter-term ones—remained low relative to its long-run history despite edging up through March ( figure 1.2 ). While interest rate volatility implied by options declined a touch, it remained elevated by historical norms ( figure 1.3 ). This volatility reflected, in part, uncertainty about the economic outlook and the associated path of monetary policy, which likely heightened the sensitivity of Treasury yields to news about output growth, inflation, and the supply of Treasury securities. Figure 1.1. Nominal Treasury yields remained close to the highest levels in the past 15 years Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The 2-year and 10-year Treasury rates are the monthly average of the constant-maturity yields based on the most actively traded securities. Source: Federal Reserve Board, Statistical Release H.15, "Selected Interest Rates." Figure 1.2. An estimate of the nominal Treasury term premium remained relatively low Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Term premiums are estimated from a 3-factor term structure model using Treasury yields and Blue Chip interest rate forecasts. Source: Department of the Treasury; Wolters Kluwer, Blue Chip Financial Forecasts; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Federal Reserve Board staff estimates. Figure 1.3. Interest rate volatility fell slightly but continued to be elevated by historical norms Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data begin in April 2005. Implied volatility on the 10-year swap rate, 1 month ahead, is derived from swaptions. Source: For data through July 13, 2022, Barclays and S&P Global; for data from July 14, 2022, onward, ICAP, Swaptions and Interest Rate Caps and Floors Data. Measures of equity market valuations rose further from already high levels The ratio of prices to expected 12-month earnings, or the price-to-earnings ratio, increased since the October report and currently sits in the upper end of its historical distribution since 1989 ( figure 1.4 ). The difference between the forward earnings-to-price ratio * and the real 10-year Treasury yield—a measure of the additional return that investors require for holding stocks relative to risk-free bonds (the equity premium)—declined, on net, since the October report and currently stands well below its historical median ( figure 1.5 ). 2 Equity market volatility was subdued, and option-implied volatility remained in the lower quarter of its historical distribution ( figure 1.6 ). Figure 1.4. The price-to-earnings ratio of S&P 500 firms increased to levels further above its historical median Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The figure shows the aggregate forward price-to-earnings ratio of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 firms, based on expected earnings for 12 months ahead. Source: Refinitiv, Institutional Brokers' Estimate System, North American Summary & Detail Estimates, Level 2, Current & History Data, Adjusted and Unadjusted, https://www.lseg.com/en/data-analytics/financial-data/company-data/ibes-estimates . Figure 1.5. An estimate of the equity premium fell further below its historical median Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data begin in October 1991. The figure shows the difference between the aggregate forward earnings-to-price ratio of Standard & Poor's 500 firms and the expected real Treasury yields, based on expected earnings for 12 months ahead. Expected real Treasury yields are calculated from the 10-year consumer price index inflation forecast, and the smoothed nominal yield curve is estimated from off-the-run securities. Source: Refinitiv, Institutional Brokers' Estimate System, North American Summary & Detail Estimates, Level 2, Current & History Data, Adjusted and Unadjusted, https://www.lseg.com/en/data-analytics/financial-data/company-data/ibes-estimates . Figure 1.6. Volatility in equity markets decreased to levels slightly below the historical median Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Realized volatility is computed from an exponentially weighted moving average of 5-minute daily realized variances with 75 percent of the weight distributed over the past 20 business days. Median refers to the median option-implied volatility. Source: Cboe Volatility Index® (VIX®) accessed via Bloomberg Finance L.P.; Federal Reserve Board staff estimates. Spreads in corporate debt markets narrowed to low levels Yields for both investment- and speculative-grade bonds fell a bit since the October report and currently stand near the median of their respective historical distributions ( figure 1.7 ). While the decline in corporate bond yields was modest, it nevertheless outpaced that of comparable-maturity Treasury securities, and, as a result, corporate bond spreads narrowed to levels that are low relative to their historical distributions ( figure 1.8 ). The excess bond premium—a risk premium measure that captures the gap between corporate bond spreads and expected credit losses—remained near its historical mean ( figure 1.9 ). Market-based forecasts of credit quality (one-year-ahead default probabilities) of nonfinancial firms have mildly improved since the October report but remain somewhat elevated by historical standards for speculative-grade issuers. Figure 1.7. Corporate bond yields fell slightly to levels near their historical medians Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The triple-B series reflects the effective yield of the ICE Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BofAML) triple-B U.S. Corporate Index (C0A4), and the high-yield series reflects the effective yield of the ICE BofAML U.S. High Yield Index (H0A0). Source: ICE Data Indices, LLC, used with permission. Figure 1.8. Corporate bond spreads narrowed to low levels relative to their historical distributions Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The triple-B series reflects the option-adjusted spread of the ICE Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BofAML) triple-B U.S. Corporate Index (C0A4), and the high-yield series reflects the option-adjusted spread of the ICE BofAML U.S. High Yield Index (H0A0). Source: ICE Data Indices, LLC, used with permission. Figure 1.9. The excess bond premium fell slightly but remained near the middle of the historical range Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The excess bond premium (EBP) is a measure of bond market investors' risk sentiment. It is derived as the residual of a regression that models corporate bond spreads after controlling for expected default losses. By construction, its historical mean is zero. Positive (negative) EBP values indicate that investors' risk appetite is below (above) its historical mean. Source: Federal Reserve Board staff calculations based on Lehman Brothers Fixed Income Database (Warga); Intercontinental Exchange, Inc., ICE Data Services; Center for Research in Security Prices, CRSP/Compustat Merged Database, Wharton Research Data Services; S&P Global, Compustat. The average spread on leveraged loans in the secondary market fell a touch since the October report but remained roughly in line with its average over the past decade ( figure 1.10 ). The trailing 12-month loan default rate moved up, on net, since the last report, and the year-ahead expected default rate remained somewhat elevated relative to its historical trend. Figure 1.10. Spreads on leveraged loans declined modestly Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data show secondary-market discounted spreads to maturity. Spreads are the constant spread used to equate discounted loan cash flows to the current market price. B-rated spreads begin in July 1997. The black dashed line represents the data transitioning from monthly to weekly in November 2013. Source: PitchBook Data, Leveraged Commentary & Data. Market liquidity stayed near the lower end of its historical range Market liquidity refers to the ease and cost of buying and selling an asset. Low liquidity can amplify the volatility of asset prices and result in larger price moves in response to shocks. In extreme cases, low liquidity can threaten market functioning, leading to a situation in which participants are unable to trade without incurring a significant cost. Treasury market liquidity is important because of the key role these securities play in the financial system. Various measures of market liquidity, such as market depth, suggest that liquidity in the Treasury cash market remained low ( figures 1.11 and 1.12 ), although at levels that reflect elevated measures of interest rate volatility. The effect of low levels of market depth on price impact has been limited because market participants split trades into smaller quantities, and liquidity providers have been able to replenish the limited volume of quotes rapidly enough to meet incoming order flow without large moves in prices. Nevertheless, conditions in the Treasury cash market appear challenged and could amplify shocks. Figure 1.11. Treasury market depth increased but remained below historical norms Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Market depth is defined as the average top 3 bid and ask quote sizes for on-the-run Treasury securities. Source: Inter Dealer Broker Community. Figure 1.12. On-the-run market depth improved in recent months but remained below historical norms Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data show the time-weighted average market depth at the best quoted prices to buy and sell, for 2-year and 10-year Treasury notes. OTR is on-the-run. Source: BrokerTec; Federal Reserve Board staff calculations. In other markets, liquidity conditions present a mixed picture. Liquidity in corporate bond markets remained in line with the average level observed in recent years, and bid-ask spreads were close to their lowest levels since the 2007–09 financial crisis. In contrast, liquidity conditions in equity markets remained low by longer-term historical standards and deteriorated somewhat despite lower equity volatility ( figure 1.13 ). Figure 1.13. A measure of liquidity in equity markets remained below average Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data show the depth at the best quoted prices to buy and sell, defined as the ask size plus the bid size divided by 2, for E-mini Standard & Poor's 500 futures. Source: Refinitiv, DataScope Tick History; Federal Reserve Board staff calculations. Commercial real estate prices declined but remained high relative to rents Aggregate CRE prices measured in inflation-adjusted terms continued to decline over the second half of last year ( figure 1.14 ), with declines in these price measures broad based across all CRE sectors. These transaction-based price measures likely do not yet fully reflect the deterioration in CRE market prices because, rather than realizing losses, many owners wait for more favorable conditions to put their properties on the market. Capitalization rates at the time of property purchase, which measure the annual income of commercial properties relative to their prices, moved modestly higher but remained at historically low levels, suggesting that prices remain high relative to fundamentals ( figure 1.15 ). The CRE office sector has faced strains resulting from an ongoing post-pandemic adjustment, and these strains could contribute to additional weakness in prices and rents going forward. Vacancy rates for offices located in central business districts and coastal cities increased further, and rents continued to decline since the October report. In the October 2023 and January 2024 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported weaker demand and tighter standards for all CRE loan categories during the second half of 2023 ( figure 1.16 ). Figure 1.14. Commercial real estate prices, adjusted for inflation, continued to decline Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data are deflated using the consumer price index. Source: Real Capital Analytics; consumer price index, Bureau of Labor Statistics via Haver Analytics. Figure 1.15. Income of commercial properties relative to prices continued to grow but remained well below historical norms Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data are a 12-month moving average of weighted capitalization rates in the industrial, retail, office, and multifamily sectors, based on national square footage in 2009. Source: Real Capital Analytics; Andrew C. Florance, Norm G. Miller, Ruijue Peng, and Jay Spivey (2010), "Slicing, Dicing, and Scoping the Size of the U.S. Commercial Real Estate Market," Journal of Real Estate Portfolio Management, vol. 16 (May–August), pp. 101–18. Figure 1.16. Banks reported tightening lending standards for commercial real estate loans Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Banks' responses are weighted by their commercial real estate loan market shares. Survey respondents to the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices are asked about the changes over the quarter. The shaded bars with top caps indicate periods of business recession as defined by the National Bureau of Economic Research: March 2001–November 2001, December 2007–June 2009, and February 2020–April 2020. Source: Federal Reserve Board, Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices; Federal Reserve Board staff calculations. Residential real estate valuations remained high relative to rents as house prices continued to increase Valuations in the residential real estate sector remained at elevated levels relative to historical standards and moved higher since the October report. House prices continued to rise through the first two months of the year ( figure 1.17 ). A model of house price valuation based on prices relative to market rents and the real 10-year Treasury yield suggests that valuations in housing markets were increasingly stretched. Moreover, an alternative measure of valuation pressures (which uses owners' equivalent rent instead of market rents and, therefore, has a longer history) also suggested elevated valuations ( figure 1.18 ). Moreover, the median price-to-rent ratio measured across a wide distribution of geographic areas remained close to its previous peak in the mid-2000s ( figure 1.19 ). That said, credit conditions for borrowers remained tighter relative to the early 2000s, suggesting that weak credit standards are not driving house price growth. Figure 1.17. House prices continued to increase in recent months Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data extend through February 2024 for Zillow and January 2024 for CoreLogic and Case-Shiller. Source: Zillow, Inc., Real Estate Data; CoreLogic, Inc., Real Estate Data; S&P Case-Shiller Home Price Indices. Figure 1.18. Model-based measures of house price valuations rose to historically high levels Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The owners' equivalent rent value for 2024:Q1 is based on monthly data through January 2024. The data for the market-based rents model begin in 2004:Q1 and extend through 2023:Q4. Valuation is measured as the deviation from the long-run relationship between the price-to-rent ratio and the real 10-year Treasury yield. Source: For house prices, Zillow, Inc., Real Estate Data; for rent data, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Figure 1.19. House price-to-rent ratios remained elevated across geographic areas Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data are seasonally adjusted. Percentiles are based on 19 large metropolitan statistical areas. Source: For house prices, Zillow, Inc., Real Estate Data; for rent data, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Farmland valuations remained high relative to farm income Farmland valuations remained elevated, as farmland prices increased to near-historical highs ( figure 1.20 ). Farmland price-to-rent ratios diverged further from their historical norms, reaching a level more than twice the median of their historical distribution ( figure 1.21 ). Prices continued to be sustained in the short run by limited farmland inventory despite declining farm income, elevated interest rates, and higher operating costs. Figure 1.20. Farmland prices increased to near-historical highs Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data for the U.S. begin in 1997. Midwest index is a weighted average of Corn Belt and Great Plains states derived from staff calculations. Values are given in real terms. Source: Department of Agriculture; Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis staff calculations. Figure 1.21. Farmland prices grew faster than rents Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data for the U.S. begin in 1998. Midwest index is a weighted average of Corn Belt and Great Plains states derived from staff calculations. Source: Department of Agriculture; Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis staff calculations. References * On March 2, 2026, the term “forward P/E” was corrected to “forward earnings-to-price” ratio. Return to text 2. This estimate is constructed based on expected corporate earnings for 12 months ahead. Alternative measures of the equity premium that incorporate longer-term earnings forecasts suggest more elevated equity valuation pressures. Return to text Back to Top Last Update: March 02, 2026