TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: [PDF] Commercial Bank Examination Manual, 3000—CAPITAL ...
URL: https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/cbem-3000-202602.pdf
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

3000—CAPITAL, EARNINGS, LIQUIDITY , AND SENSITIVITY TO MARKET RISK The 3000 series of sections address the super- visory assessment of a state member bank’s Capital, Earnings, Liquidity, and Sensitivity to market risk (CELS). In addition to the review of asset quality (see the 2000 series major head- ing), the CELS components represent the key areas that examiners review in assessing the overall ﬁnancial condition of the bank. Commercial Bank Examination Manual May 2021 Page 1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy Effective date November 2020 Section 3000.1 PURPOSE OF CAPITAL Although both bankers and bank regulators look carefully at the quality of bank assets and management and at the ability of the bank to control costs, evaluate risks, and maintain proper liquidity, capital adequacy is the area that trig- gers the most supervisory action, especially in view of the prompt-corrective-action (PCA) pro- vision of section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), 12 U.S.C. 1831o. The primary function of capital is to fund the bank’s operations, act as a cushion to absorb unantici- pated losses and declines in asset values that may otherwise lead to material bank distress or failure, and provide protection to uninsured depositors and debt holders if the bank were to be placed in receivership. A bank’s solvency promotes public conﬁdence in the bank and the banking system as a whole by providing contin- ued assurance that the bank will continue to honor its obligations and provide banking ser- vices. By exposing stockholders to a larger percentage of any potential loss, higher capital levels reduce the subsidy provided to banks by the federal safety net. Capital regulation is particularly important because deposit insurance and other elements of the federal safety net provide banks with an incentive to increase their leverage beyond what the market—in the absence of depositor protection—would permit. Additionally, banks’ higher capital levels can reduce the need for certain supervisory activities, thereby lowering the regulatory burden on supervised institutions. OVERVIEW OF REGULA TION Q (12 CFR Part 217) In 2013, the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) (collectively the agencies) adopted a rule replac- ing their general risk-based capital require- ments, advanced approaches capital require- ments, market risk capital requirements, and leverage capital requirements. 1 The Federal Reserve’s capital rule, Regulation Q, addresses weaknesses highlighted during the 2008–09 ﬁnancial crisis by helping to ensure that the banking system is better able to absorb losses and continue to lend in future periods of eco- nomic stress. In addition, Regulation Q imple- ments certain federal laws related to capital requirements and international regulatory capi- tal standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). Applicability of Regulation Q Regulation Q applies on a consolidated basis to every Board-regulated institution (referred to as a “banking organization” in this section) that is • a state member bank; • a bank holding company (BHC) domiciled in the United States that is not subject to 12 CFR part 225, appendix C, 2 or • a covered savings and loan holding company (SLHC) domiciled in the United States. Regulation Q does not apply to SLHCs sub- stantially engaged in insurance underwriting or commercial activities, or to SLHCs that are insurance underwriting companies. Components of Capital Regulation Q provides a deﬁnition of capital and a framework for calculating risk-weighted assets 1. See 12 CFR part 217 (Regulation Q). For more infor- mation on the implementation of Regulation Q, see SR-15-6, “Frequently Asked Questions on the Regulatory Capital Rule” and the “New Capital Rule: Community Bank Guide” (July 2013). 2. 12 CFR part 225, appendix C is the “Small Bank Holding Company and Savings and Loan Holding Company Policy Statement,” and it applies to BHCs with pro forma consolidated assets of less than $3 billion that (1) are not engaged in signiﬁcant nonbanking activities either directly or through a nonbank subsidiary; (2) do not conduct signiﬁcant off-balance-sheet activities (including securitization and asset management or administration) either directly or through a nonbank subsidiary; and (3) do not have a material amount of debt or equity securities outstanding (other than trust preferred securities) that are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Board may, in its discretion, exclude any BHC, regardless of asset size, from the policy statement if such action is warranted for supervisory purposes. With some exceptions, the policy statement applies to SLHCs as if they were BHCs. See the Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual for more information on the Small Bank Holding Company and Savings and Loan Holding Company Policy Statement. The Board may, by order, apply any or all of Regulation Q to any BHC, based on an institution’s asset size, level of complexity, risk proﬁle, scope of operations, or ﬁnancial condition. Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 1 by assigning assets and off-balance-sheet items to broad categories of credit risk. A banking organization’s risk-based capital ratio is calcu- lated by dividing its qualifying capital (the numerator of the ratio) by its risk-weighted assets (the denominator). A summary of the components of qualifying capital is outlined below, as are the procedures for calculating risk-weighted assets. For more comprehensive information on the deﬁnition of capital and risk weighted assets, see the Federal Reserve’s Regu- lation Q. The risk-based capital requirements of Regu- lation Q are designed to be sensitive to differ- ences in credit-risk proﬁles among banking organizations; factor off-balance-sheet expo- sures into the assessment of capital adequacy; minimize disincentives to holding liquid, low- risk assets; and achieve consistency in the evalu- ation of the capital adequacy of major banking organizations worldwide. The three components of regulatory capital are (1) common equity tier 1 capital, (2) addi- tional tier 1 capital, and (3) tier 2 capital. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Common equity tier 1 capital is deﬁned as the sum of a banking organization’s outstanding common equity tier 1 capital instruments that satisfy the criteria set forth in Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.20(b)). Common equity tier 1 capital represents the highest-quality and most loss absorbing form of capital. The criteria for com- mon equity tier 1 capital are designed to ensure that common equity tier 1 capital is available to absorb losses as they occur and that common equity tier 1 instruments do not possess features that would cause a banking organization’s con- dition to weaken further during periods of eco- nomic and market stress. Common equity tier 1 capital is primarily composed of common stock and retained earnings, plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less certain regulatory adjustments and deduc- tions (e.g., goodwill). Under the standardized approach of Regula- tion Q, banking organizations are not required to include all components of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in common equity tier 1 capital. For advanced approaches banking organizations, most AOCI components are included in common equity tier 1 capital. Additional Tier 1 Capital Additional tier 1 capital includes instruments that satisfy the criteria set forth in Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.20(c)). Additional tier 1 capital also includes surplus related to the issuance of additional tier 1 capital instruments, and limited amounts of tier 1 minority interest that are not included in a banking organization’s common equity tier 1 capital, less applicable regulatory adjustments and deductions. The eligibility cri- teria for additional tier 1 capital instruments are designed to ensure that additional tier 1 capital instruments would be available to absorb losses on a going-concern basis. Given the strict crite- ria, in the United States the only instrument includable in additional tier 1 capital is non- cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Cumula- tive preferred stock and trust preferred securities are generally not included in additional tier 1 capital. Tier 2 Capital Tier 2 capital consists of instruments that satisfy the criteria set forth in Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.20(d)). Tier 2 capital also includes surplus related to the issuance of tier 2 capital instruments; limited amounts of total capital minority interest not included in a banking organization’s tier 1 capital; and limited amounts of the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL), 3 or adjusted allowances for credit losses (AACL),4 as applicable, less applicable regula- 3. ALLL means valuation allowances that have been estab- lished through a charge against earnings to cover estimated credit losses on loans, lease ﬁnancing receivables, or other extensions of credit as determined in accordance with GAAP . ALLL excludes “allocated transfer risk reserves.” For pur- poses of Regulation Q, ALLL includes allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings to cover estimated credit losses associated with off-balance-sheet credit exposures as determined in accordance with GAAP . 4. AACL means, with respect to a Board-regulated insti- tution that has adopted current expected credit losses (CECL) methodology, valuation allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings or retained earnings for expected credit losses on ﬁnancial assets measured at amor- tized cost and a lessor’s net investment in leases that have been established to reduce the amortized cost basis of the assets to amounts expected to be collected as determined in accordance with GAAP . AACL includes allowances for ex- pected credit losses on off-balance-sheet credit exposures not accounted for as insurance as determined in accordance with GAAP . AACL excludes “allocated transfer risk reserves” and allowances created that reﬂect credit losses on purchased credit deteriorated assets and available-for-sale debt securi- 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 tory adjustments and deductions. A banking organization calculating its total capital ratio using the standardized approach may include in tier 2 capital the amount of ALLL or AACL that does not exceed 1.25 percent of its standardized total risk-weighted assets. A banking organization calculating its total capital ratio using the advanced approaches may include in tier 2 capital the excess of its eligible credit reserves over its total expected credit loss, provided the amount does not exceed 0.6 per- cent of its credit risk-weighted assets. Deductions and Limits Deductions from common equity tier 1 capital include goodwill and other intangibles (except mortgage servicing assets), deferred tax assets (DTAs) that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (above certain levels), gains- on-sale in connection with a securitization, any deﬁned beneﬁt pension fund net asset (for bank- ing organizations that are not insured depository institutions), investments in a banking organiza- tion’s own capital instruments, mortgage servic- ing assets (above certain levels) and investments in the capital of unconsolidated ﬁnancial insti- tutions (above certain levels). Mortgage servic- ing assets, DTAs arising from temporary differ- ences that the banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, and certain investments in ﬁnancial institutions are each limited to 10 percent of common equity tier 1 capital and in combination are limited to 15 percent of common equity tier 1 capital. Risk-Weighted Assets Regulation Q prescribes two approaches to risk weighting assets. The standardized approach is generally designed for smaller banking organi- zations, while the advanced approaches are used by larger, more complex institutions. Standardized Approach The standardized approach described in Regu- lation Q harmonizes the agencies’ calculation of risk-weighted assets and addresses shortcom- ings in previous risk-based capital requirements by increasing the capital requirements for cer- tain assets. In addition, the standardized approach serves as a ﬂoor pursuant to section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) with respect to risk-based capital requirements that the Fed- eral Reserve may establish for BHCs, any non- bank ﬁnancial company designated by the Finan- cial Stability Oversight Council, SLHCs, and state member banks. Under the standardized approach, higher risk weights generally apply to high volatility com- mercial real estate loans, past due loans, and certain equity and securitization exposures. The standardized approach also provides recognition of collateral and guarantees and incentives for derivatives and repo-style transactions cleared through central counterparties. Below is a list of some key assets and exposures and the risk weights to which they are assigned under the standardized approach. • Public sector entities and U .S. government sponsored entities. Exposures to the U.S. gov- ernment generally receive a zero percent risk weight, and exposures to U.S. public-sector entities (PSEs), U.S. government-sponsored entities (GSEs), and U.S. depository institu- tions generally receive a 20 percent risk weight. Exposures conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government and its agencies generally receive a 20 percent risk weight. • Exposures to sovereign entities. Regulation Q provides that Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) mem- ber countries without a country risk classiﬁ- cations (CRC) rating receive a risk weight of zero percent while nonmember countries with- out a CRC rating will receive a risk weight of 100 percent. Exposures to sovereign entities with a CRC rating are to be assigned the risk weight that corresponds to the CRC ratings. Additionally, if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the foreign bank’s home country within the last ﬁve years, a banking organization must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the exposure. ties. For more information on CECL, see this manual’s section “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 3 • High volatility commercial real estate loans (HVCRE). 5 In general, HVCRE exposures include any credit facility that ﬁnances or has ﬁnanced the acquisition, development, or con- struction of real property, unless the facility ﬁnances one- to four-family residential mort- gage property, loans to ﬁnance agricultural properties, or certain community development projects, or commercial real estate projects that meet certain prudential criteria, including the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio for a loan and capital contributions or expense contributions of the borrower. Supervisory experience has demonstrated that certain acquisition, devel- opment, and construction loans, which are a subset of commercial real estate exposures, present particular risks for banking organiza- tions. Accordingly, HVCRE is assigned a 150 percent risk weight under Regulation Q. • Residential mortgage exposures. One-to four- family residential mortgage exposures are gen- erally assigned a 50 percent risk weight under Regulation Q provided the exposures are pru- dently underwritten ﬁrst lien mortgage loans that are not past due, reported as nonaccrual, secured by a property that is either owner- occupied or rented, and has not been restruc- tured or modiﬁed. A 100 percent risk weight is assigned for all other residential mortgages. • Structured securities and securitizations. The securitization framework in Regulation Q addresses the credit risk of exposures that involve the tranching of credit risk of one or more underlying ﬁnancial exposures. Regula- tion Q deﬁnes a securitization exposure as an on- or off-balance-sheet credit exposure (including credit-enhancing representations and warranties) that arises from a traditional or synthetic securitization (including a resecu- ritization), or an exposure that directly or indirectly references a securitization expo- sure. Regulation Q establishes risk weight ap- proaches for securitization exposures and struc- tured security exposures that are retained on- or off-balance sheet. Typical examples of securiti- zation exposures include private label collater- alized mortgage obligations (CMOs), trust pre- ferred collateralized debt obligations, and asset- backed securities, provided there is tranching of credit risk. Generally, pass-through and govern- ment agency CMOs are excluded from the securitization exposure risk weight approaches. In general, Regulation Q requires banking orga- nizations to calculate the risk weight of securi- tization exposures using either the gross-up approach or the Simpliﬁed Supervisory Formula Approach (SSFA) consistently across all securi- tization exposures, except in certain cases. For instance, the bank can, at any time, risk-weight a securitization exposure at 1,250 percent. The gross-up approach is similar to earlier risk-based capital rules, where capital is required on the credit exposure of the bank’s investment in a speciﬁc tranche as well as its pro rata share of the more senior tranches that its tranche supports. A bank calculates its capital require- ment based on the weighted-average risk weights of the underlying exposures in the securitization pool. The SSFA is designed to assign a lower risk weight to more-senior-class securities and higher risk weights to supporting tranches. The SSFA is both risk-sensitive and forward-looking. The formula adjusts the risk weight for a security based on key risk factors such as incurred losses on the underlying assets, nonperforming loans, and the ability of subordinate tranches to absorb losses. In any case, a securitization exposure is assigned a risk weight of no lower than 20 percent. • Securitization due diligence. During the 2008-09 ﬁnancial crisis, many banking orga- nizations relied exclusively on ratings issued by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) and did not perform internal credit analysis of their securitization exposures. Consistent with the Basel capital framework and the agencies’ general expecta- tions for investment analysis, Regulation Q outlines speciﬁc securitization exposure due diligence requirements for banking organiza- 5. Section 214 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA), Pub. L. No. 115- 174, 132 Stat. 1296, 1321–22 (2018), addressed the treatment of HVCRE by adding section 51 to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), 12 U.S.C. 1831bb. FDIA section 51 provides a statutory deﬁnition of high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development, or construction (HVCRE ADC) loans. Under FDIA section 51, the agencies may only require a depository institution to assign a heightened risk weight to a HVCRE exposure, as deﬁned under the capital rule, if such exposure is an HVCRE ADC loan. This statutory change was effective upon enactment of EGRRCPA in May 2018. The agencies also amended their capital rules to reﬂect this statutory change. See 84 Fed. Reg. 68,019 (Decem- ber 13, 2019). 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 tions. As stated in Regulation Q, a banking organization is required to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of its primary federal supervisor, a comprehensive understanding of the features of a securitization exposure that would mate- rially affect its performance. The banking organization’s analysis must be commensu- rate with the complexity of the exposure and the materiality of the exposure in relation to capital of the banking organization. On an ongoing basis (no less frequently than quar- terly), the banking organization must evaluate, review, and update as appropriate the analysis required by Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.41(c)(1)) for each securitization exposure. The analysis of the risk characteristics of the exposure prior to acquisition, and periodically thereafter, need to consider: — Structural features of the securitization that materially impact the performance of the exposure. For example, the contractual cash-ﬂow waterfall, waterfall-related trig- gers, credit enhancements, liquidity en- hancements, market value triggers, the performance of organizations that service the position, and deal-speciﬁc deﬁnitions of default; — Relevant information regarding the perfor- mance of the underlying credit expo- sure(s). For example, the percentage of loans 30, 60, and 90 days past due; default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclo- sure; property types; occupancy; average credit score or other measures of credit- worthiness; average LTV ratio; and indus- try and geographic diversiﬁcation data on the underlying exposure(s); — Relevant market data of the securitization. For example, bid-ask spread; most recent sales price and historical price volatility; trading volume; implied market rating; and size, depth, and concentration level of the market for the securitization; and — For resecuritization exposures, perfor- mance information on the underlying secu- ritization exposures. For example, the issuer name and credit quality, and the characteristics and performance of the exposures underlying the securitization exposures. If a banking organization is not able to meet these due diligence requirements and demon- strate a comprehensive understanding of a secu- ritization exposure to the satisfaction of its primary federal supervisor, the banking organi- zation is required to assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure. • Equity exposures to investment funds. A bank- ing organization determines the risk-weighted asset amount for equity exposures to invest- ment funds using one of three approaches: (1) the full look-through approach, (2) the simple modiﬁed look-through approach, or (3) the alternative modiﬁed look-through approach, unless the equity exposure to an investment fund is a community development equity exposure. The risk-weighted asset amount for such community development equity exposures is the exposure’s adjusted carrying value. If a banking organization does not use the full look-through approach, and an equity exposure to an investment fund is part of a hedge pair, a banking organization must use the ineffective portion of the hedge pair as the adjusted carrying value for the equity exposure to the investment fund. The risk- weighted asset amount of the effective portion of the hedge pair is equal to its adjusted carrying value. A banking organization may choose which approach to apply for each equity exposure to an investment fund. 1. Full Look-Through Approach. A banking organization may use the full look-through approach only if the banking organization is able to calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for each of the exposures held by the investment fund. A banking organiza- tion using the full look-through approach is required to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for its proportionate owner- ship share of each of the exposures held by the investment fund (as calculated under the standardized approach) as if the pro- portionate ownership share of the adjusted carrying value of each exposures were held directly by the banking organization. The banking organization’s risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure to the fund is equal to (1) the aggregate risk-weighted asset amount of the exposures held by the fund as if they were held directly by the banking organization multiplied by (2) the banking organization’s proportional own- ership share of the fund. Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 5 2. Simple Modiﬁed Look-Through Approach. Under the simple modiﬁed look-through approach, a banking organization sets the risk-weighted asset amount for its equity exposure to an investment fund equal to the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure multiplied by the highest appli- cable risk weight under the standardized approach to any exposure the fund is permitted to hold under the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar agree- ment that deﬁnes the fund’s permissible investments. The banking organization may exclude derivative contracts held by the fund that are used for hedging, rather than for speculative purposes, and do not con- stitute a material portion of the fund’s exposures. 3. Alternative Modiﬁed Look-Through Ap- proach. Under the alternative modiﬁed look-through approach, a banking organi- zation may assign the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure to an invest- ment fund on a pro rata basis to different risk weight categories under the standard- ized approach based on the investment limits in the fund’s prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that deﬁnes the fund’s permissible investments. The risk-weighted asset amount for the banking organization’s equity exposure to the invest- ment fund is equal to the sum of each portion of the adjusted carrying value assigned to an exposure type multiplied by the applicable risk weight. If the sum of the investment limits for all permissible invest- ments within the fund exceeds 100 percent, the banking organization must assume that the fund invests to the maximum extent permitted under its investment limits in the exposure type with the highest applicable risk weight under the standardized approach and continues to make investments in the order of the exposure category with the next highest risk weight until the maxi- mum total investment level is reached. If more than one exposure category applies to an exposure, the banking organization must use the highest applicable risk weight. A banking organization may exclude de- rivative contracts held by the fund that are used for hedging, rather than for specula- tive purposes, and do not constitute a material portion of the fund’s exposures. • Collateralized transactions. Regulation Q recognizes a range of ﬁnancial collateral as credit risk mitigants that may reduce the risk-based capital requirements associated with a collateralized transaction. Financial collateral includes (1) cash on deposit with the banking orga- nization (including cash held for the banking organization by a third-party custodian or trustee); (2) gold bullion; (3) short- and long-term debt securities that are not resecuritization exposures and that are investment grade; (4) equity securities that are publicly traded; (5) convertible bonds that are publicly traded; or (6) money market fund shares and other mutual fund shares if a price for the shares is publicly quoted daily. With the exception of cash on deposit, the banking organization is also required to have a perfected, ﬁrst-priority security inter- est or, outside of the United States, the legal equivalent thereof, notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent. Even if a banking organization has the legal right, it still must ensure it moni- tors or has a freeze on the account to prevent a customer from withdrawing cash on deposit prior to defaulting. A banking organization is permitted to recognize par- tial collateralization of an exposure. Under Regulation Q, a banking organi- zation may recognize the risk-mitigating effects of ﬁnancial collateral using the “simple approach” for any exposure pro- vided that the collateral meets certain requirements. For repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, collateralized deriva- tive contracts, and single-product netting sets of such transactions, a banking orga- nization could alternatively use the “collat- eral haircut approach.” Most institutions are likely to use the simple approach; however, regardless of the approach cho- sen, the institution must consistently apply its approach for similar exposures or trans- actions. • Simple approach. In the simple approach described in Regulation Q, the collateral- ized portion of the exposure receives the 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 6 risk weight applicable to the collateral. The collateral is required to meet the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial collateral. For repurchase agree- ments, reverse repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transac- tions, the collateral would be the instru- ments, gold, and cash that a banking orga- nization has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction. In all cases, (1) the collateral must be subject to a collateral agreement for at least the life of the exposure; (2) the banking organization must revalue the collateral at least every six months; and (3) the collateral (other than gold) and the exposure must be denominated in the same currency. Gener- ally, the risk weight assigned to the collat- eralized portion of the exposure must be no less than 20 percent. However, the collat- eralized portion of an exposure may be assigned a risk weight of less than 20 per- cent in certain instances. • Collateral haircut approach. A banking organization may use the collateral haircut approach to recognize the credit risk miti- gation beneﬁts of ﬁnancial collateral that secures an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, collateralized derivative con- tract, or single-product netting set of such transactions. In addition, the banking orga- nization may use the collateral haircut approach with respect to any collateral that secures a repo-style transaction that is included in the banking organization’s value-at-risk (VaR)-based measure under the market risk rule, even if the collateral does not meet the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial collateral. To apply the collateral haircut approach, a banking organization must determine the exposure amount and the relevant risk weight for the counterparty or guarantor. The exposure amount for an eligible margin loan, repo-style transac- tion, collateralized derivative contract, or a netting set of such transactions is equal to the greater of zero and the sum of the following three quantities as described in Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.37(c)): (1) the value of the exposure less the value of the collateral; (2) the absolute value of the net position in a given instrument or in gold; and (3) the absolute value of the net position of instruments and cash in a cur- rency that is different from the settlement currency multiplied by the haircut appro- priate to the currency mismatch. For purposes of the collateral haircut approach, a given instrument includes, for example, all securities with a single Com- mittee on Uniform Securities Identiﬁcation Procedures (CUSIP) number and would not include securities with different CUSIP numbers, even if issued by the same issuer with the same maturity date. • Treatment of Guarantees. Under Regula- tion Q, banking organizations have the option to substitute the risk weight of an eligible guarantee or guarantor for the risk weight of the underlying exposure. For example, if the bank has a loan guaranteed by an eligible guarantor, the bank can use the risk weight of the guarantor. Eligible guarantors include entities such as deposi- tory institutions and holding companies, the International Monetary Fund, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal Agricul- tural Mortgage Corporation, entities with investment grade debt, sovereign entities, and foreign banks. An eligible guarantee must be written, be either unconditional or a contingent obligation of the U.S. govern- ment or its agencies, cover all or a pro rata share of all contractual payments, give the beneﬁciary a direct claim against the pro- tection provider, and meet other require- ments outlined in the deﬁnition of eligible guarantees in 12 CFR 217.2. • Off-Balance-Sheet Exposures. Risk-weighted asset amounts for off-balance-sheet items are calculated using a two-step process: (1) Multiplying the amount of the off-balance- sheet exposure by a credit conversion fac- tor to determine a credit equivalent amount, and (2) assigning the credit equivalent amount to a relevant risk-weight category. This treatment applies to all off-balance- sheet items, such as commitments, contin- gent items, guarantees, certain repo-style transactions, ﬁnancial standby letters of credit, and forward agreements. Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 7 Table 1—SUMMARY OF STANDARDIZED APPROACH RISK WEIGHTS OF ASSETS IN 12 CFR 217 Category Risk weight Section of the rule (12 CFR 217) Cash 0% 217.32(1)(1) Direct and unconditional claims on the U.S. government, its agencies, and the Federal Reserve 0% 217.32(a)(1)(i) Claims on certain supranational entities and multilateral develop- ment banks 0% 217.32(b) Cash items in the process of collection 20% 217.32 Conditional claims on the U.S. government 20% 217.32(a)(1)(ii) Claims on government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) 20% on exposures other than equity exposures and preferred stock. 100% on GSE preferred stock. 217.32(c) Claims on U.S. depository institu- tions and National Credit Union Administration-insured credit unions 20% 100% risk weight for an invest- ment in an instrument included in another banking organization’s regulatory capital unless the in- strument is an equity exposure or required to be deducted. 217.32(d)(1) and (3) Claims on U.S. public sector entities 20% for general obligations. 50% for revenue obligations. 217.32(e)(1) Industrial development bonds 100% 217.32(l)(5) Claims on qualifying securities ﬁrms 100% – See corporate exposures below. 217.32(f) One- to four-family loans 50% if ﬁrst lien, prudently under- written, owner occupied or rented, not 90 days or more past due or carried in nonaccrual status, is not restructured or modiﬁed. 100% otherwise. 217.32(g) One- to four-family loans modiﬁed under Home Affordable Modiﬁca- tion Program 50% and 100% The banking organization must use the same risk weight assigned to the loan prior to the modiﬁca- tion so long as the loan continues to meet other applicable pruden- tial criteria. 217.32(g)(3) 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 8 Category Risk weight Section of the rule (12 CFR 217) Loans to builders secured by one- to four-family properties pre- sold under ﬁrm contracts 50% if the loan meets all criteria in the regulation. 100% if the contract is cancelled. 100% for loans not meeting the criteria. 217.32(h) Loans on multifamily properties 50% if the loan meets all the criteria in the regulation for a statutory multifamily property; 100% otherwise. 217.32(i) Corporate exposures and consumer loans 100% unless the exposure is an investment in an instrument included in the regulatory capital of another ﬁnancial institution. 217.32(f) Commercial real estate (CRE) 100% 150% for high volatility commer- cial real estate, which is, subject to certain exceptions, a credit facil- ity secured by land or improved real property that primarily ﬁ- nances has ﬁnanced, or reﬁnances the acquisition, development, or construction of real property; has the purpose of providing ﬁnanc- ing to acquire, develop, or improve such real property into income- producing real property; and is dependent upon future income or sales proceeds from, or reﬁnanc- ing of, such real property for the repayment of such credit facility. 217.32(j) and ( l)(5) Past-due exposures 150% for the portion that is not guaranteed or secured (does not apply to sovereign exposures). However, one- to four-family loans that are past due 90 days or more are assigned a 100% risk weight. 217.32(k) Assets not assigned to a risk weight category, including ﬁxed assets, premises, and other real estate owned 100% 217.32( l)(5) Mortgage-backed securities, asset- backed securities, and structured securities Two general approaches— gross-up approach and simple supervisory formula approach. May also choose to risk weight a securitization exposure at 1,250%. 217.42, .43, and .44 Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 9 Category Risk weight Section of the rule (12 CFR 217) Equity exposures Range of risk weights between 0% and 600%, depending on the entity and whether the equity is publicly traded 217.51 and .52 Equity exposures to investment funds There is a 20% risk weight ﬂoor on investment fund holdings. The following approaches are available: 1. Risk weight is the same as the highest risk weight investment the fund is permitted to hold (called the Simple Modiﬁed Look-Through Approach). 2. A banking organization may assign risk weight on a pro rata basis based on the investment limits in the fund’s prospectus (called the Alternative Modi- ﬁed Look-Through Approach). 3. A third treatment (called the Full Look-Through Approach) risk weights each asset of the fund (as if owned directly) and multiplies by the banking orga- nization’s proportional owner- ship in the fund. 217.53 Claims on foreign governments and their central banks, foreign banking organizations, and foreign public sector entities Risk weight depends on Country Risk Classiﬁcation (CRC) appli- cable to the sovereign, the sover- eign’s OECD status, and whether the sovereign entity has defaulted within the previous ﬁve years. 217.32(a)(2) to (6), (d)(2) and (e)(2) to (6) Advanced Approaches The advanced approaches framework 6 provides a risk-based and leverage capital framework that permit certain banking organizations to use an internal risk measurement approach to calculate capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches in order to calculate regulatory operational-risk capital requirements. An advanced approaches banking organization must calculate its risk-based capital ratios using both the standardized and advanced approaches and meet each minimum requirement with the lower of the two ratios. The advanced approaches are supplemented by the market risk capital require- ment. The advanced approaches in Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) apply to a top-tier U.S. bank holding companies or savings and loan holding company that is identiﬁed as a global systemi- cally important bank holding company and a Category II banking organization as described in the Federal Reserve’s Regulation YY (12 CFR 252.5) or Regulation LL (12 CFR 238.10). The advanced approaches also apply to a state member bank that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important bank holding company, a Category II Board-regulated institution; or a 6. See 12 CFR part 217 subpart E. 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 10 subsidiary of a bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company that uses the advanced approaches to calculate its risk-based capital requirements. Advanced approaches bank- ing organizations also include those banking organizations that have elected to use the ad- vanced approaches to calculate their total risk- weighted assets. Market Risk Capital Requirement The market risk capital requirement 7 applies to banking organizations with signiﬁcant trading activities to calculate regulatory capital require- ments for market risk. The purpose of the market risk capital requirement is to establish risk-based capital requirements for Board- regulated institutions with signiﬁcant exposure to market risk, provide methods for these Board- regulated institutions to calculate their standard- ized measure for market risk and, if applicable, advanced measure for market risk, and establish public disclosure requirements. The market risk capital requirement applies to any Board- regu- lated institution with aggregate trading assets and trading liabilities equal to 10 percent or more of total assets or $1 billion or more. 8 On a case-by-case basis, the Federal Reserve may require an institution that does not meet these criteria to comply with the market risk capital requirement if deemed necessary for safety-and- soundness reasons. The Federal Reserve may also exclude an institution that meets the criteria if such exclusion is deemed to be consistent with safe and sound banking practices. Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratios All banking organizations covered under Regu- lation Q are subject to the following minimum regulatory capital requirements: a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent, a tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent, a total capital ratio of 8 percent of risk-weighted assets, and a leverage ratio of 4 percent. 9 See table 2 for more infor- mation on the calculation of these ratios. Most banking organizations are expected to operate with capital levels above the minimum ratios. Banking organizations that are undertak- ing signiﬁcant expansion or that are exposed to high or unusual levels of risk are expected to maintain capital well above the minimum ratios; in such cases, the Federal Reserve may specify a higher minimum requirement. In implementing Regulation Q, the Federal Reserve has reserved the authority to require banking organizations to hold more capital if the minimum requirements are not commensurate with the bank’s credit, market, operational, or other risks (see 12 CFR 217.1(d)). This is a formal process that requires Federal Reserve approval, and an examiner alone cannot provide this directive. Examiners may use the Matters Requiring Attention or Matters Requiring Imme- diate Attention section of the examination report to require a bank to maintain an appropriate capital policy or plan that includes capital limits that are consistent with the bank’s risk proﬁle. Community Bank Leverage Ratio Framework In 2019, the agencies adopted a ﬁnal rule 10 that provides for a simple measure of capital adequacy for certain community banking orga- nizations, consistent with section 201 of the EGRRCPA. This ﬁnal rule established the com- munity bank leverage ratio (CBLR) framework, which provides an optional measure of capital adequacy for depository institutions and deposi- tory institution holding companies with the fol- lowing characteristics: • leverage ratio greater than 9 percent 11 • less than $10 billion in average total consoli- dated assets • off-balance-sheet exposures of 25 percent or less of total consolidated assets • trading assets plus trading liabilities of 5 per- cent or less of total consolidated assets • not an advanced approaches banking organi- zation.12 7. See 12 CFR part 217 subpart F. 8. As reported in the Board-regulated institution’s most recent quarterly Call Report, for a state member bank, or Form FR Y-9C, for a BHC or SLHC, as applicable, any SLHC that does not ﬁle the Form FR Y-9C should follow the instructions to the Form FR Y-9C. 9. Tier 1 capital is equal to the sum of common equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of common equity tier 1, additional tier 1, and tier 2 capital. 10. See 84 Fed. Reg. 61,797 (November 13, 2019) and 12 CFR 217.12. 11. From April 23, 2020, through December 31, 2021, a lower leverage ratio criterion applies. See 12 CFR 217.304. 12. For more detailed information on the applicability of Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 11 A qualifying banking organization may opt into the CBLR framework by completing the associated reporting line items that are required for such ﬁrms on its Call Report and/or Form FR Y–9C, as applicable. A qualifying banking organization that elects to use the CBLR frame- work and that maintains a leverage ratio of greater than 9 percent will be considered to have satisﬁed the generally applicable risk-based and leverage capital requirements in the agencies’ capital rules (generally applicable requirement). If applicable, the qualifying banking organiza- tion will be considered to have met the well- capitalized ratio requirements for prompt correc- tive action purposes. 13 A banking organization may opt out of the CBLR framework and become subject to the generally applicable requirement by completing the associated reporting requirements on its Call Report and/or Form FR Y–9C, as applicable. A banking organization can opt out of the CBLR framework between reporting periods by provid- ing its capital ratios under the generally appli- cable requirement to its appropriate regulators at that time. Calculation of the CBLR is as follows: Tier 1 capital Average total consolidated assets The calculation of a Board-regulated institu- tion’s leverage ratio is described in the generally applicable requirement. 14 However, the calcula- tion of tier 1 capital for purposes of the CBLR differs from the generally applicable require- ment. Because the CBLR framework does not have a total capital requirement, an electing banking organization is neither required to cal- culate tier 2 capital nor make any deductions that would have been taken from tier 2 capital under the generally applicable requirement. Grace Period If an electing banking organization fails to satisfy one or more of the qualifying criteria but maintains a leverage ratio of greater than 8 per- cent, that banking organization has a “grace period” of up to two quarters during which it could continue to use the CBLR framework and be deemed to meet the “well capitalized” capital ratio requirements. 15 As long as the banking organization is able to return to compliance with all the qualifying criteria within two quarters, it continues to be deemed to meet the “well the CBLR framework, see 12 CFR 217.12(a)(2). 13. See FDIA section 38, 12 U.S.C. 1831o, and the Board’s Regulation H, 12 CFR part 208. 14. 12 CFR 217.10. 15. From April 23, 2020, through December 31, 2021, lower grace period thresholds apply. See 12 CFR 217.304. TABLE 2—CAPITAL RA TIO CALCULA TIONS AND MINIMUM RA TIOS Ratio Calculation Minimum Common equity tier 1 capital ratio common equity tier 1 capital standardized total risk-weighted assets 4.5% Tier 1 capital ratio tier 1 capital standardized total risk-weighted assets 6% Total capital ratio total capital standardized total risk-weighted assets 8% Leverage ratio tier 1 capital average total consolidated assets 4% 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 12 capitalized” ratio requirements and to be in compliance with the generally applicable require- ment. A banking organization is required to comply with and report under the generally applicable requirement and ﬁle the relevant regulatory reports if the banking organization (1) is unable to restore compliance with all qualifying criteria during the two-quarter grace period (including reporting a leverage ratio greater than 9 per- cent), (2) has a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less, or (3) ceases to satisfy the qualifying criteria due to consummation of a merger trans- action. 16 Supplementary Leverage Ratio The supplementary leverage ratio measures tier 1 capital relative to total leverage exposure, which includes on-balance sheet assets (including deposits at central banks) and certain off- balance sheet exposures. 17 Advanced approaches banking organizations and Category III Board-regulated institutions are also subject to a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3 percent. The denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio incorporates certain off-balance-sheet exposures such as com- mitments and derivative exposures. The Federal Reserve applies this to advanced approaches banking organizations and Category III Board- regulated institutions because these ﬁrms typi- cally hold higher levels of off-balance-sheet exposure that are not captured by the leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio also factors into a covered institution’s PCA capital ratio framework. In January 2020, the Federal Reserve issued a ﬁnal rule to implement EGRRCPA section 402, which requires the agencies to amend the supple- mentary leverage ratio. 18 Under EGRRCPA sec- tion 402, the supplementary leverage ratio must not take into account funds of a custodial bank that are deposited with certain central banks, provided that any amount that exceeds the value of deposits of the custodial bank that are linked to ﬁduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts must be taken into account when calculating the supplementary leverage ratio as applied to the custodial bank. Custody, safekeeping, and asset servicing activities generally involve holding securities or other assets on behalf of clients, as well as activities such as transaction settlement, income processing, and related record keeping and operational services. To qualify as a custo- dial banking organization, a depository institu- tion holding company is required to have a ratio of assets under custody-to-total assets of at least 30:1, calculated as an average over the prior four calendar quarters. Enhanced Supplementary Leverage Ratio In 2015, the Federal Reserve implemented an enhanced supplemental leverage ratio require- ment. 19 Banking organizations subject to Cate- gory I standards, which are the global systemi- cally important bank holding companies (U.S. G-SIBs), as well as their depository institution subsidiaries, are subject to enhanced supplemen- tary leverage ratio standards. The enhanced supplementary ratio standards require each U.S. G-SIB to maintain a supplementary lever- age ratio above 5 percent to avoid limitations on the ﬁrm’s distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments and also require each of its insured depository institutions to maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of at least 6 per- cent to be deemed “well capitalized” under the prompt corrective action framework of each agency. The leverage buffer functions like the capital conservation buffer for the risk-based capital ratios, which is described in greater detail below. De Novo Bank Leverage Ratio SR-20-16, “Supervision of De Novo State Mem- ber Banks,” provides additional supervisory guidance on leverage ratio expectations for de novo state member banks (de novo bank). As noted in SR-20-16, an insured depository insti- tution is considered to be in the de novo stage until it has been operating for at least three years. A de novo bank should maintain capital ratios commensurate with its risk proﬁle and, generally, well in excess of regulatory mini- mums. Typically, as a condition of membership, the Federal Reserve requires each de novo bank to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 16. From April 23, 2020, through December 31, 2021, lower grace period thresholds apply. See 12 CFR 217.304. 17. 12 CFR 217.10(a)(5) and (c)(4). 18. 85 Fed. Reg. 4569 (January 27, 2020). 19. 80 Fed. Reg. 49,082 (August 14, 2015). Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 13 8 percent for the ﬁrst three years of its exis- tence. 20 The Reserve Bank should consult Board supervision staff when the Tier 1 leverage ratio of a de novo falls below 8 percent. Examiners should also scrutinize de novo banks that rely on additional capital infusions to meet this mini- mum requirement and understand the stability of the capital source. Stress Capital Buffer During the 2008–09 ﬁnancial crisis, some bank- ing organizations continued to pay dividends and substantial discretionary bonuses even as their ﬁnancial condition weakened. Such capital distributions had a signiﬁcant negative impact on the overall strength of the banking sector. To encourage better capital conservation and to enhance the resilience of the banking system, Regulation Q limits capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments for banking orga- nizations that do not hold a speciﬁed amount of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the amount of regulatory capital necessary to meet the minimum risk-based capital requirements (capital conservation buffer). On March 4, 2020, the Federal Reserve approved a ﬁnal rule establishing a stress capital buffer for bank holding companies and U.S. intermediate holding companies of foreign banking organiza- tions that have $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The stress capital buffer rule integrates the Federal Reserve’s stress test results with its non-stress capital requirements. 21 More speciﬁcally, the stress capital buffer rule integrates the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR) with the capital rule. Under the stress capital buffer requirement, the Federal Reserve uses the results of its supervi- sory stress test to establish the size of a ﬁrm’s stress capital buffer requirement, which replaces the static 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets component of a ﬁrm’s capital conservation buf- fer requirement. A ﬁrm’s stress capital buffer requirement varies based on a ﬁrm’s risk. A ﬁrm that does not maintain capital ratios above its minimums plus its buffer requirements faces restrictions on its capital distributions and dis- cretionary bonus payments. Countercyclical Capital Buffer The countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) is a supplemental policy tool that the Federal Reserve can increase during periods of rising vulnerabili- ties in the ﬁnancial system and reduce when vulnerabilities recede. It is designed to increase the resilience of advanced approaches banking organizations or Category III Board-regulated institutions when there is an elevated risk of above-normal losses. Increasing the resilience of such organizations will, in turn, improve the resilience of the broader ﬁnancial system. The circumstances in which the Federal Reserve would most likely begin to increase the CCyB above zero percent to augment minimum capital requirements and other capital buffers would be when systemic vulnerabilities are meaningfully above normal. By requiring large banking orga- nizations to hold additional capital during a period of excess and removing the requirement to hold additional capital when the vulnerabili- ties have diminished, the CCyB is expected to moderate ﬂuctuations in the supply of credit over time. A CCyB, if applicable, would expand the capital conservation buffer by up to 2.5 percent of a banking organization’s total risk-weighted assets for advanced approaches banking organi- zations or Category III Board-regulated institu- tions. The amount of the CCyB amount is determined by a country’s bank supervisor and will differ by jurisdiction . At any point in time, a country’s bank supervisor determines the degree of excessive credit growth in its jurisdic- tions. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution or a Category III Board-regulated institution must calculate a countercyclical capi- tal buffer amount in accordance with Regula- tion Q (12 CFR 217.11(b)) for purposes of determining its maximum payout ratio. The payout ratio is set forth in Regulation Q as well as this manual’s section entitled “Dividends.” PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION In 1991, Congress enacted a regulatory frame- work to address the problems associated with troubled insured depository institutions with the intent of minimizing the long-term cost to the 20. Refer to 12 CFR 217.10(a). This expectation does not prevent a de novo that is a qualifying community banking organization from electing to be subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework. See also 12 CFR 217.12. 21. 85 Fed. Reg. 15,576 (March 18, 2020). 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 14 Deposit Insurance Fund. This legislation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improve- ment Act of 1991, added section 38 to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), codiﬁed at 12 U.S.C. 1831o; FDIA section 38 is known as the PCA statute. The Federal Reserve has implemented PCA as applicable to state member banks in subpart D of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.40 to 208.45). PCA uses the total risk-based capital measure, tier 1 risk-based capital measure, common equity tier 1 risk- based capital measure, leverage ratio, supple- mentary leverage ratio, and tangible equity to total assets ratio for assigning state member banks to the ﬁve capital categories. These ﬁve PCA categories under FDIA section 38 and the PCA regulations are “well capitalized,” “ad- equately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “sig- niﬁcantly undercapitalized,” and “critically un- dercapitalized.” A qualifying community banking organization that has elected to use the commu- nity bank leverage ratio framework under 12 CFR 217.12 is considered to have met the capital ratio requirements for the well capital- ized capital category. The capital ratios trigger speciﬁc actions that are designed to restore a bank to ﬁnancial health. See the “Prompt Cor- rective Action” section for more information on PCA. EV ALUA TING CAPITAL ADEQUACY Overall Assessment of Capital Adequacy The following factors should be taken into account in assessing the overall capital adequacy of a bank. Regulatory Capital Ratios Capital ratios should be compared with regula- tory minimums and with peer-group averages. Banking organizations are expected to maintain minimum capital ratios described above. How- ever, because risk-based capital does not take explicit account of the quality of a bank’s asset portfolios or its risk exposures, such as interest- rate, liquidity, market, or operational risks, bank- ing organizations are generally expected to oper- ate with capital positions above the minimum ratios. Institutions with high or inordinate levels of risk are also expected to maintain capital well above the minimum levels. Impact of Management Strategic capital planning. One of manage- ment’s most important functions is to lead the organization by designing and implementing an effective strategic plan that addresses the bank’s capital requirements to support its business goals and objectives. The strategic plan should clearly outline the bank’s capital base, anticipated capi- tal expenditures, desirable capital level, and external capital sources. 22 Effective strategic planning allows the institution to be proactive in addressing market changes and emerging risks and, therefore, enables an institution to plan for its capital needs. Strategic capital planning should address both a bank’s short-term and long-term capital needs in relation to its asset deployment, funding sources, capital formation, management, marketing, operations, and infor- mation systems. Growth. Capital is necessary to support a bank’s growth, and, therefore, a bank needs to monitor its capital ratios in relation to its strategic plan. Because a bank has to maintain a minimum ratio of capital to assets, there are limitations on a bank’s ability to grow. For example, a rapid growth in a bank’s loan portfolio may be a cause of concern, for it could indicate that a bank is altering its risk proﬁle by reducing its underwrit- ing standards. Dividends. State member banks are subject to legal restrictions on reductions in capital result- ing from cash dividends, including out of the capital surplus account, under 12 U.S.C. 324 and 12 CFR 208.5. The Federal Reserve has a long-standing policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by state member banks and BHCs that are experiencing ﬁnancial difﬁcul- ties. The policy statement addresses the follow- ing practices that raises supervisory concerns when an institution is experiencing earnings 22. For more information about capital planning at the holding company level, see SR-09-4, “Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,” and the Board’s Regulation Y on capital plan- ning and stress capital buffer requirements (12 CFR 225.8). Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 15 weaknesses, or has other serious problems or inadequate capital: • the payment of dividends not covered by earnings, • the payment of dividends from borrowed funds, and • the payment of dividends from unusual or nonrecurring gains, such as the sale of prop- erty or other assets. When a bank is experiencing earnings weak- nesses or other ﬁnancial pressures, the Federal Reserve’s view is that • a bank’s level of cash dividends should not exceed its net income; • dividends should be consistent with the orga- nization’s capital position, and • dividends should only be funded in ways that do not weaken the organization’s ﬁnancial health. In some instances, it may be appropriate to eliminate cash dividends altogether. 23 Examiners should review historical and planned cash-dividend payout ratios to deter- mine whether dividend payments are impairing capital adequacy. Excessive dividend payouts may result from several sources: • If the bank is owned by a holding company, the holding company may be requiring exces- sive dividend payments from the bank to fund the holding company’s debt-repayment pro- gram, expansion goals, or other cash needs. • The bank’s board of directors may be under pressure from individual shareholders to pro- vide funds to repay bank stock debt or to use for other purposes. • Dividends may be paid or promised to support a proposed equity offering. 24 Access to additional capital. Banks that do not generate sufﬁcient capital internally may require external sources of capital. Large, independent institutions may seek additional funding from the capital markets. Smaller institutions may rely on its parent holding company, a principal shareholder, or a control group to provide addi- tional funds, or may rely on the issuance of new capital instruments to existing or new investors. Current shareholders may resist efforts to issue new capital instruments because of the diluting effect of the new capital. In deciding whether to raise additional capital in this manner, sharehold- ers should weigh the dilution against the possi- bility that, without the additional funds, the institution may fail. Under the FDI Act, a depository institution holding company is required to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary depository institu- tions. 25 A holding company can fulﬁll this obligation by having enough liquidity to inject funds into the depository institution or by hav- ing access to the same sources of additional capital, that is, current or existing shareholders, as outlined above. Financial Considerations Financial information can be found on Sched- ule RC-R of the Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) for banks; however, risks may not always be reﬂected in the current ﬁnancial condition. Therefore, examiners should not rely solely on an institution’s current ﬁnancial con- dition when determining capital adequacy and should assess management’s ability to identify, measure, monitor, and control all material risks that may affect capital. Examiners should evalu- ate a bank’s capital levels and ratios in view of the bank’s overall ﬁnancial condition, including the following areas: Asset quality. Examiners’ supervisory assess- ment on a bank’s capital adequacy may differ from conclusions based solely from the level of a bank’s risk-based capital ratio. Generally, the main reason for this difference is the evaluation of asset quality. An examiner’s assessment a bank’s capital adequacy takes into account examination ﬁndings, particularly the severity of problem and classiﬁed assets and investment or loan portfolio concentrations as well as he adequacy of the bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses. 23. For the complete text of the policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by state member banks and BHCs that are experiencing ﬁnancial difﬁculties see the Bank Hold- ing Company Supervision Manual and Attachment B to SR-09-4. 24. For more information, see the “Dividends” section of this manual. 25. For more information, see the “Supervision of Subsid- iaries” section in the Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual. 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 16 Balance-sheet composition. A bank whose earn- ing assets are not diversiﬁed or whose credit culture is more risk-tolerant is generally expected to operate with higher capital levels than a similar-sized institution with well-diversiﬁed, less-risky investments. Earnings. A bank’s earnings performance should enable it to fund growth, compete in the mar- ketplace, and support its risk proﬁle. An adequately capitalized, growing bank should have a consistent pattern of capital augmenta- tion by earnings retention. Poor earnings can have a negative effect on bank’s capital adequacy in two ways. First, any losses absorbed by capital reduce the ability of the remaining capi- tal to absorb future losses. Second, the impact of losses on capital is magniﬁed by the fact that a bank generating losses is incapable of replenish- ing its capital accounts internally. Funds management. A bank with undue levels of interest-rate risk may need to strengthen its capital positions, even though it may meet the minimum risk-based capital standards. The adequacy and effectiveness of an institution’s interest-rate risk management process and the level of its interest-rate risk exposure are critical factors in the examiners’ evaluation of an insti- tution’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates and capital adequacy. Examiners consider how a bank manages its interest-rate exposures. A bank’s funds management systems should be commensurate with its earnings and capital levels, complexity, business model, risk proﬁle, and scope of operations. If a bank determines that its core earnings and capital are insufﬁcient to support its level of interest-rate risk, a bank should take steps to mitigate its risk exposure or increase its capital, or take both steps. See SR-10-1, “Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk,” for more information. Off-balance-sheet items and activities. Once funded, off-balance-sheet items become subject to the same capital requirements as on-balance- sheet items. A bank’s capital levels should be sufﬁcient to support the quality and quantity of assets that would result from a signiﬁcant por- tion of these items being funded within a short time. Inadequate Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses or Adjusted Allowances for Credit Losses. An inadequate ALLL or AACL will require an additional charge to current income. Any charge to current income will reduce the amount of earnings available to supplement tier 1 capital. Because the amount of the ALLL or AACL that can be included in tier 2 capital is limited to 1.25 percent of gross risk-weighted assets, an additional provision may increase the ALLL or AACL level above this limit, thereby resulting in the excess portion being excluded from tier 2 capital. Ineligible Collateral and Guarantees. Regula- tion Q recognizes only limited types of collat- eral and guarantees. Other types of collateral and guarantees may support a bank’s asset mix, particularly within its loan portfolio. Such col- lateral or guarantees may serve to improve substantially the overall quality of a loan port- folio and other credit exposures and should be considered by examiners in their overall assess- ment of a bank’s capital adequacy. Market V alue of Bank Stock. Examiners should review trends in the market price of a bank’s stock and whether its stock is trading at a reasonable multiple of earnings or a reasonable percentage (or multiple) of book value. A bank’s low stock price may merely be an indication that it is undervalued, or it may be indicative of regional or industry-wide problems. However, a low-valued stock may also indicate that inves- tors lack conﬁdence in the institution; such lack of support could impair the bank’s ability to raise additional capital in the capital markets. Other Real Estate Reserves. Other real estate reserves, whether considered general or speciﬁc reserves, are not recognized as a component of regulatory capital. However, examiners should consider these reserves when classifying an other real estate (ORE) asset as a Loss. Exam- iners should consider the existence of any gen- eral ORE reserves when determining the amount of the loss on an ORE asset. To the extent that ORE reserves adequately cover the risks inher- ent in the ORE portfolio as a whole, including any individual ORE assets classiﬁed Loss, there would not be a deduction from common equity tier 1 capital. The ORE Loss in excess of ORE reserves should be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital under assets other than held-for-investment loans and leases classiﬁed loss. Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 17 Unrealized Asset V alues.Banks often have assets on their books that are carried at signiﬁcant discounts below current market values. The excess of the market value over the book value (historical cost or acquisition value) of assets such as investment securities or banking prem- ises may represent capital to the bank. These unrealized asset values are not included in the risk-based capital calculation; however, examin- ers should consider these assets when assessing a bank’s capital adequacy. Further, as part of this assessment, examiners should consider the nature of the asset, the reasonableness of its valuation, its marketability, and the likelihood of its sale. Stress Testing and Capital Adequacy Stress testing is a tool that helps both bank supervisors and certain ﬁrms measure the sufﬁ- ciency of capital available to support the ﬁrm’s operations throughout periods of stress. The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking agencies have highlighted the use of stress testing as a means to better understand the range of a ﬁnancial company’s potential risk expo- sures. While stress tests are a valuable tool for assessing the capital adequacy of a ﬁrm, stress tests may not necessarily capture a company’s full range of risks, exposures, activities, and vulnerabilities that have a potential effect on capital adequacy. The Federal Reserve has established frame- works and programs for the supervision of its largest and most complex ﬁnancial institutions to achieve its supervisory objectives, incorporat- ing lessons learned from the 2008–09 ﬁnancial crisis and in the period since. As part of these supervisory frameworks and programs, the Fed- eral Reserve assesses whether bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets and U.S. intermediate hold- ing companies are sufﬁciently capitalized to absorb losses during stressful conditions while meeting obligations to creditors and counterpar- ties and continuing to be able to lend to house- holds and businesses. On October 10, 2019, the Federal Reserve amended its prudential stan- dards to exempt ﬁrms with total consolidated assets of less than $100 billion from the super- visory stress test and to subject certain ﬁrms with total consolidated assets between $100 bil- lion and $250 billion to the supervisory stress test requirements on a two-year cycle. 26 Bank holding companies and intermediate holding companies with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or material levels of other risk factors remain subject to the supervisory stress test requirements on an annual basis. RA TING THE CAPITAL FACTOR FOR STA TE MEMBER BANKS As stated in the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System 27 for commercial banks and thrifts, a ﬁnancial institution is expected to maintain capital commensurate with the nature and extent of risks to the institution and the ability of management to identify, measure, monitor, and control these risks. Examiners should consider the effect of credit, market, and other risks on the institution’s ﬁnancial condi- tion when evaluating the adequacy of capital. The types and quantity of risk inherent in an institution’s activities will determine the extent to which it may be necessary for an institution to maintain capital at levels above required regu- latory minimums in order to reﬂect properly the potentially adverse consequences that these risks may have on the institution’s capital. Examiners rate an institution’s capital ad- equacy based upon, but not limited to, an assessment of the following evaluation factors: • The level and quality of capital and the institution’s overall ﬁnancial condition. • The ability of management to address emerg- ing needs for additional capital. • The nature, trend, and volume of problem assets, and the adequacy of allowances for loan and lease losses, adjusted allowances for credit losses, and other valuation reserves. • Balance sheet composition, including the nature and amount of intangible assets, market risk, concentration risk, and risks associated with nontraditional activities. • Risk exposure represented by off-balance- sheet activities. • The quality and strength of earnings, and the reasonableness of dividends. • Prospects and plans for growth as well as the institution’s past experience in managing growth. 26. 84 Fed. Reg. 59,032 (November 1, 2019). 27. 61 Fed. Reg. 67,021 (December 19, 1996). 3000.1 Assessment of Capital Adequacy November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 18 • Access to capital markets and other sources of capital, including support provided by a par- ent holding company. Ratings 1. A rating of “1” indicates a strong capital level relative to the institution’s risk proﬁle. 2. A rating of “2” indicates a satisfactory capital level relative to the ﬁnancial institution’s risk proﬁle. 3. A rating of “3” indicates a less than satisfac- tory level of capital that does not fully support the institution’s risk proﬁle. The rating indicates a need for improvement, even if the institution’s capital level exceeds minimum regulatory and statutory require- ments. 4. A rating of “4” indicates a deﬁcient level of capital. In light of the institution’s risk pro- ﬁle, viability of the institution may be threat- ened. Assistance from shareholders or other external sources of ﬁnancial support may be required. 5. A rating of “5” indicates a critically deﬁcient level of capital such that the institution’s viability is threatened. Immediate assistance from shareholders or other external sources of ﬁnancial support is required. Assessment of Capital Adequacy 3000.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 19 Assessment of Capital Adequacy Examination Procedures Effective date May 2022 Section 3000.3 Examination procedures are available on the Examination Documentation (ED) modules page on the Board’s website. See the following ED module for examination procedures on this topic: • Capital Commercial Bank Examination Manual May 2022 Page 1 Dividends Effective date April 2020 Section 3025.1 Dividends are distributions of earnings to own- ers. 1 Dividends can inﬂuence an investor’s will- ingness to purchase corporate stock since the investor generally expects reasonable invest- ment returns. Although dividends usually are declared and paid in either cash or stock, occa- sionally they are used to distribute real or personal property. Dividend payments may reduce capital in some banks to the point of supervisory concern. As a result, certain statu- tory limitations apply to the payment of divi- dends. If a bank is a subsidiary of a bank holding company, examiners should also be aware of a bank’s parent company cash-ﬂow needs. In addition to the payment of dividends, the parent company may need cash for debt service or to fund its operations. Parent company debt gener- ally is primarily serviced through dividend pay- ments by the subsidiary bank. When establish- ing dividend levels from a bank subsidiary, the parent company should not set a dividend rate that will place undue pressure on the bank’s ability to maintain an adequate level of capital. Declaration of a dividend requires formal action by the board of directors to designate the medium of payment, dividend rate, shareholder record date, and date of payment. Dividends may be declared at the discretion of the board. 2 The bank should conduct appropriate capital planning and due diligence to ensure the divi- dend payments will not place undue pressure on the bank’s current and future capital levels. Dividends are recorded by debiting “retained earnings” and crediting “dividends declared not yet payable,” which is to be reported in other liabilities. Upon payment of the dividend, “divi- dends declared not yet payable” is debited for the amount of the cash dividend with an offset- ting credit, normally in an equal amount, to “dividend checks outstanding” which is report- able in the “demand deposits” category of the bank’s deposit liabilities. For more information, see the Call Report Instructions. SUPERVISORY GUIDANCE ON DIVIDENDS In addition to statutory limitations of the pay- ment of dividends, on November 14, 1985, the Federal Reserve Board issued a policy statement on the payment of dividends by state member banks and bank holding companies. The com- plete statement is available in the Federal Reserve Regulatory Service at 4–877, sec- tion 2020.5, “Intercompany Transactions (Divi- dends),” in the Bank Holding Company Super- vision Manual . A summary of the 1985 policy statement on the payment of dividends is pro- vided below. In 2009, the Federal Reserve issued SR let- ter 09-4 , “Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,” which provides guidance on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions, and capital repurchases by bank holding companies in the context of their capital planning processes. While SR-09-4 applies to bank holding companies, its prin- ciples are also broadly relevant to state member banks. In 2015, the Federal Reserve issued SR letter 15-18 , “Federal Reserve Supervisory Assessment of Capital Planning and Positions for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,” and SR letter 15-19 , “Federal Reserve Supervisory Assessment of Capital Planning and Positions for Large and Noncomplex Firms.” While SR-15-18 and SR-15-19 generally apply to the largest bank holding companies, the principles of the 1985 Policy Statement on the Payment of Dividends are incorporated into these SR letters. Speciﬁcally, ﬁrms should have comprehensive policies on dividend payments that clearly articulate their objectives and approaches for maintaining a strong capital position and achieving the principles of the policy statement. 1. Other payments not called dividends may also be distri- butions of earnings to owners. These distributions or “con- structive dividends” may be termed fees, bonuses, or other payments. Constructive dividends are distinct from legitimate fees, bonuses, and other payments, which are reasonable, adequately documented, and for valuable goods and services provided to the bank. Constructive dividends may create a potential tax liability and indicate control issues or insider self-dealing, and they may portend shareholder lawsuits against insiders, board members, and the bank. 2. At a minimum, board of directors minutes approving declaration and payment of a dividend should include three components: (1) the “as of” date to identify shareholders of record to receive the dividend (date of record), (2) an amount or description of the dividend, and (3) identiﬁcation of the date on which the dividend payment is to take place (date of payment). There may also be additional legal requirements that should be documented, depending on state laws and the nature of the dividend. Commercial Bank Examination Manual April 2020 Page 1 SUMMARY OF POLICY STA TEMENT ON PA YMENT OF DIVIDENDS Adequate capital is critical to the health of individual banking organizations and to the safety and stability of the banking system. A major determinant of a ﬁnancial institution’s capital adequacy is earnings strength and whether earnings are retained or paid to shareholders as dividends. Dividends are a primary way that banking organizations provide return to share- holders on their investment. During proﬁtable periods, dividends represent a return of a portion of a banking organization’s net earnings to its shareholders. During less proﬁtable periods, dividend rates are often reduced or sometimes eliminated. The payment of cash dividends that are not fully covered by earnings, in effect, represents the return of a portion of an organization’s capital at a time when circumstances may indicate instead the need to strengthen capital and concentrate ﬁnan- cial resources on resolving the organization’s problems. Therefore, as a matter of prudent banking it is generally only appropriate for a bank or bank holding company to continue its existing rate of cash dividends on common stock only if • the organization’s net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufﬁcient to fully fund the dividends; and • the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s capi- tal needs, asset quality, and overall ﬁnancial condition. Any banking organization whose cash divi- dends are inconsistent with either of these cri- teria should seriously consider reducing or elimi- nating its dividends. Such an action will help conserve the organization’s capital base and help it weather a period of adversity. It is generally inconsistent with prudent bank- ing practices for a banking organization that is experiencing ﬁnancial problems or that has inad- equate capital to borrow to pay dividends; this would result in increased leverage at the very time the organization needs to reduce its debt or conserve its capital. Similarly, the payment of dividends based solely or largely on gains result- ing from unusual or nonrecurring events may be imprudent. Unusual or nonrecurring events may include the sale of assets, the effects of account- ing changes, the postponement of large expenses to future periods, or negative provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses. CAPITAL CONSERV A TION BUFFER The Board’s Regulation Q (12 CFR 217) limits capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments for banking organizations that do not hold a speciﬁed amount of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the amount of regulatory capital necessary to meet the minimum risk- based capital requirements (capital conservation buffer). A banking organization’s capital con- servation buffer must be greater than 2.5 percent of its total risk-weighted assets in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discre- tionary bonus payments. 3 If a banking organization’s capital conserva- tion buffer falls below 2.5 percent, its maximum payout amount for capital distributions and dis- cretionary payments declines to a set percentage of eligible retained income based on the size of the bank’s buffer. Table 1 reﬂects the maximum payout ratio for the capital conservation buffer. The types of payments subject to the restric- tions include dividends, share buybacks, discre- tionary payments on capital instruments, and discretionary bonus payments. It is important to note that the Board may require a Board- regulated institution to hold an amount of regu- latory capital greater than otherwise required if the Board determines that the banking organiza- tion’s capital requirements are not commensu- rate with its credit, market, operational, or other risks. For more information, see this manual’s section entitled, “Assessment of Capital Ad- equacy,” and 12 CFR 217.11. 3. A banking organization may have a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent under certain circumstances. For example, a global systemically important bank holding company (G-SIB) is subject to a G-SIB surcharge that expands the capital conservation buffer applicable to the company. G-SIBs are also subject to a buffer over the supplementary leverage ratio that imposes limits very similar to the capital conservation buffer. 3025.1 Dividends April 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 STA TUTORY LIMITA TIONS Three major federal statutory limitations govern the payment of dividends by banks. These limitations, included in sections 1831o, 56, and 60 of title 12 of the United States Code (12 USC 1831o, 56, and 60), apply to cash divi- dends and non-stock property dividends. Com- mon stock dividends (dividends payable in com- mon stock to all the common shareholders of the bank) may be paid regardless of these statutory limitations since such dividends do not reduce the bank’s capital. In addition, the examiner needs to be aware of any state laws governing dividend payments. Prompt Corrective Action Section 1831o, also referred to as the prompt- corrective-action (PCA) provision, was adopted in 1991 as part of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. Section 1831o applies to all insured depository institutions, including state member banks, and is imple- mented through section 208.40 of Regulation H. This regulatory section prohibits the payment of dividends when a bank is deemed to be under- capitalized or when the payment of the dividend would make the bank undercapitalized in accor- dance with the PCA framework. An organiza- tion that is undercapitalized for purposes of PCA must cease paying dividends for as long as it is deemed to be undercapitalized. Once earn- ings have begun to improve and an adequate capital position has been restored, dividend payments may resume in accordance with fed- eral and state statutory limitations and guide- lines. Sections 56 and 60 Sections 56 and 60 (sections 5204 and 5199 of the Revised Statutes) were ﬁrst adopted as part of the National Bank Act more than a century ago. Although these sections were made appli- cable to national banks, they also apply to state member banks under the provisions of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act. 4 These sections are implemented through section 208.5 of Regula- tion H. Under section 56, prior regulatory and share- holder approval must be obtained if the dividend would exceed the bank’s undivided proﬁts (retained earnings), as reportable in its Reports of Condition and Income (Call Reports). 5 In addition, the bank may include amounts con- tained in its surplus account, if the amounts reﬂect transfers made in prior periods of undi- vided proﬁts and if regulatory approval for the transfer back to undivided proﬁts is obtained. 4. State-chartered banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System (state nonmember banks) are not subject to sections 56 and 60. However, they may be subject to similar dividend restrictions under state law. 5. Although the language of section 56 could imply that a dividend cannot be declared in excess of the limit even if regulatory approval were obtained, a “return of capital” to shareholders is allowed under section 59 if the bank obtains prior regulatory approval and the approval of at least two- thirds of each class of shareholders. Table 1—Calculation of Maximum Payout Amount Capital Conservation Buffer (as a percentage of risk weighted assets) Maximum Payout Ratio (as a percentage of the previous four quarters of net income) Greater than 2.5% No payout ratio limitation applies. Less than or equal to 2.5% and greater than 1.875% 60% Less than or equal to 1.875% and greater than 1.25% 40% Less than or equal to 1.25% and greater than 0.625% 20% Less than or equal to 0.625% 0% Dividends 3025.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual April 2020 Page 3 Under section 60, prior regulatory approval to declare a dividend must be obtained if the total of all dividends declared during the calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the (1) sum of the net income earned during the year-to-date and (2) the retained net income of the prior two calendar years as reported in the bank’s Call Reports. In determining this limita- tion, any dividends declared on common or preferred stock during the period and any required transfers to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock must be deducted from net earnings to determine the net income and retained net income. 6 The statutory limitations are tied to the dec- laration date of the dividend because, at that time, shareholders expect the dividends will be paid, a liability is recorded, and the bank’s capital is reduced. If the bank’s board of direc- tors wishes to declare a dividend between Call Report dates, the earnings or losses incurred since the last Call Report date should be con- sidered in the calculation. Thus, if a bank’s dividend-paying capacity might be limited under sections 56 or 60, the bank should ensure it has sufﬁcient capacity to declare the dividend by maintaining sufﬁcient documentation to substan- tiate its earnings or losses on an accrual basis for the period since the last Call Report date. REQUEST FOR REGULA TORY APPROV AL When regulatory approval is required for divi- dend payments under section 56 or 60, the request should be submitted to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. In section 265.11(e)(4) of the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, the Reserve Banks have been delegated author- ity to permit a state member bank to declare dividends in excess of section 60 limits. Before approving the request, the Reserve Bank should consider if the proposed dividend is consistent with the bank’s capital needs, asset quality, strength of management, and overall ﬁnancial condition. If applicable, examiners should verify that prior approval was obtained from the Federal Reserve Bank, and, if required, at least two- thirds of each class of stockholders before the dividend was paid. Violations of law or safety and soundness concerns arising from nonconfor- mance with the Federal Reserve Board’s policy statement should be discussed with bank man- agement and noted in the examination report. 6. In rare circumstances when the surplus of a state member bank is less than what applicable state law requires the bank to maintain relative to its capital stock account, the bank may be required to transfer amounts from its undivided proﬁts account to surplus. This may arise, for example, because some states require surplus to equal or exceed 100 percent of the capital stock account. Such required transfers would reduce the section 60 calculation. 3025.1 Dividends April 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 Dividends Examination Procedures Effective date April 2020 Section 3025.3 1. Evaluate the bank’s dividend policies (which may be in the overall capital plan- ning policy) and determine whether they provide appropriate guidance for manag- ing the bank’s dividends. Consider whether policies • are consistent with the board’s risk appetite; • are reviewed and approved by the board at appropriate intervals; • require maintenance of adequate records and documentation of the stock accounts and shareholders, as applicable; • provide for compliance with applicable laws and regulations; • clearly and completely articulate the bank’s objectives for maintaining a sat- isfactory capital position, including restricting dividends and other capital distributions when the bank does not, or may not, meet required capital levels or internal targets; • include appropriate targets, limits, or ﬂoors for dividends; • incorporate measures to ensure that suf- ﬁcient capital remains after the payment of dividends to support the bank’s busi- ness plans, growth, and business goals as stated in the bank’s strategic or capital plans; • address the authorization of capital account and dividend transactions; • require adequate documentation of capi- tal transactions with afﬁliates or related organizations; • address the employment of an indepen- dent stock registrar or stock transfer agent (e.g., review policies for third- party vendors), if applicable; and • address the selection and use of a third- party dividend paying agent, if applica- ble. 2. Determine whether policies establish lim- its on dividends and issuances of capital instruments, redemptions, or repurchases, and delineate prudent actions to be taken if the limits are exceeded. Consider whether policies • include sufﬁcient standards for detect- ing and preventing activities that could materially affect the capital accounts, dividends, and capital adequacy; • provide guidelines for setting dividends at appropriate levels relative to the bank’s ﬁnancial position; and • include processes for reporting and remediating breaches of dividend. 3. Review any relevant work performed by internal or external auditors. If any deﬁ- ciencies were noted in the latest internal or external auditor reports, determine if appropriate corrective action has been taken. 4. Review board or risk committee minutes for discussions regarding internal risk assessment activities that management uses to supervise dividends. 5. Determine whether board and senior man- agement receives information about emerg- ing issues in a timely manner. 6. Determine whether there is undue pres- sure to pay dividends. Items to consider include • the holding company’s ﬁnancial condi- tion and contractual obligations, • the ﬁnancial condition of afﬁliates, • stockholder or market pressure, and • capital distribution and bonus limita- tions under the capital conservation buffer. 7. Review historical and planned dividend payout ratios and other planned capital reductions. For planned capital stock retirements, ensure management requested prior regulatory approval. Also, determine whether management evaluated the impact of the capital conservation buffer. 8. Determine whether dividends are exces- sive compared to current earnings. 9. Determine whether the bank complies with applicable laws and regulations related to dividends. 10.a. If dividends were declared since the last examination, complete the dividend- limi- tations worksheets to determine whether the bank was in compliance with the following sections of the U.S. Revised Statutes, as they are interpreted by sec- tion 208.5 of Regulation H: Commercial Bank Examination Manual April 2020 Page 1 • section 5199 (12 USC 60), which estab- lishes a restriction based on the current and prior two years’ retained net income, as adjusted for required transfers to surplus or transfers to a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock. Table 1 on the next page may be used for the calculation. • section 5204 (12 USC 56), which estab- lishes a restriction on dividends based on the bank’s retained earnings (undi- vided proﬁts), as adjusted for any sur- plus transferred, with prior regulatory approval, as needed, back to undivided proﬁts and the excess, if any, of credit losses or other losses derived from extensions of credit over the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL). 1 b. For the calculations in table 1, determine whether the dividend exceeded the sec- tion 56 or 60 limits and, if so, whether the dividend received prior approval. Divi- dends declared in excess of the section 56 limitation must receive prior Federal Reserve approval and approval by at least two-thirds of the shares of each class of stock outstanding, pursuant to 12 USC 59. Dividends declared in excess of the sec- tion 60 limitation must receive prior Fed- eral Reserve approval. 1. Although section 56 seems to indicate that a bank should deduct its credit losses from its undivided proﬁts, this adjust- ment is not generally necessary. Under generally accepted accounting principles, banks reserve for bad debts in the ALLL, which reduces the bank’s undivided proﬁts. Banks should deduct only the credit losses in excess of the bank’s ALLL, and such excess should rarely occur. The second part of table 1 illustrates the section 56 dividend-limitation calcu- lation. 3025.3 Dividends: Examination Procedures April 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 Table 1—Dividend-Limitation Computations References to schedules in this table are to the schedules in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (bank Call Reports). Section 60 Computation Year 20__ 20__ 20__ Total Net income (loss) (schedule RI, item 12) ___ ___ ___ ___ Less: Required transfers to surplus under state law (generally zero) or transfers to a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock ___ ___ ___ ___ Less: Common and pre- ferred stock divi- dends declared (schedule RI-A, item 8 + item 9) ___ ___ ___ ___ Retained net proﬁts available for divi- dends before adjust- ments ___ ___ ___ ___ Adjustments for divi- dends in excess of income (if any) 1 ___ ___ ___ ___ Retained net proﬁts available for divi- dends after adjust- ments ___ ___ ___ ___ 2 1. Any excess may be attributed to the prior two years by ﬁrst applying the excess to the earlier year, and then the immediately preceding year, net of any previous-year adjust- ments. See section 208.5 of Regulation H for further guidance. 2. This is the section 60 limitation. Section 56 Computation Year 20__ Retained earnings (undivided proﬁts) (schedule RC, item 26a) _____ Add: Surplus in excess of state regulatory requirements that was earned and is transferred, with prior regulatory approval, back to undivided proﬁts _____ Less: Loan losses or other losses derived from exten- sions of credit that are in excess of the allowance for loan and lease losses _____ Section 56 limitation _____ Dividends: Examination Procedures 3025.3 Commercial Bank Examination Manual April 2020 Page 3 Overview of Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Programs Effective date October 2018 Section 3030.1 INTRODUCTION Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) pro- grams provide a means for corporations to obtain funding by selling or securitizing pools of homogenous assets (for example, trade receiv- ables) to special-purpose entities (SPEs/ABCP programs). The ABCP program raises funds for purchase of these assets by issuing commercial paper into the marketplace. The commercial- paper investors are protected by structural enhancements provided by the seller (for exam- ple, overcollateralization, spread accounts, or early-amortization triggers) and by credit en- hancements (for example, subordinated loans or guarantees) provided by banking organization sponsors of the ABCP program and by other third parties. In addition, liquidity facilities are also present to ensure the rapid and orderly repayment of commercial paper should cash- ﬂow difﬁculties emerge. ABCP programs are nominally capitalized SPEs that issue commer- cial paper. A sponsoring banking organization establishes the ABCP program but usually does not own the conduit’s equity, which is often held by unafﬁliated third-party management compa- nies that specialize in owning such entities, and are structured to be bankruptcy remote. TYPICAL STRUCTURE ABCP programs are funding vehicles that bank- ing organizations and other intermediaries estab- lish to provide an alternative source of funding to themselves or their customers. In contrast to term securitizations, which tend to be amortiz- ing, ABCP programs are ongoing entities that usually issue new commercial paper to repay maturing commercial paper. The majority of ABCP programs in the capital markets are established and managed by major international commercial banking organizations. As with tra- ditional commercial paper, which has a maxi- mum maturity of 270 days, ABCP is short-term debt that may either pay interest or be issued at a discount. TYPES OF ABCP PROGRAMS Multi-seller programs generally provide work- ing capital ﬁnancing by purchasing or advancing against receivables generated by multiple cor- porate clients of the sponsoring banking organi- zations. These programs are generally well diver- siﬁed across both sellers and asset types. Single-seller programs are generally established to fund one or more types of assets originated by a single seller. The lack of diversiﬁcation is generally compensated for by increased program- wide credit enhancement. Loan-backed programs fund direct loans to corporate customers of the ABCP program’s sponsoring banking organization. These loans are generally closely managed by the banking organization and have a variety of covenants designed to reduce credit risk. Securities-arbitrage programs invest in securi- ties that generally are rated AA- or higher. They generally have no additional credit enhancement at the seller/transaction level because the secu- rities are highly rated. These programs are typically well diversiﬁed across security types. The arbitrage is mainly due to the difference between the yield on the securities and the funding cost of the commercial paper. Structured investment vehicles (SIVs) are a form of a securities-arbitrage program. These ABCP programs invest in securities typically rated AA-or higher. SIVs operate on a market-value basis similar to market-value collateralized debt obligations in that they must maintain a dynamic overcollateralization ratio determined by analy- sis of the potential price volatility on securities held in the portfolio. SIVs are monitored daily and must meet strict liquidity, capitalization, leverage, and concentration guidelines estab- lished by the rating agencies. KEY PARTIES AND ROLES Key parties for an ABCP program include the following: • program management/administrators • credit-enhancement providers • liquidity-facility providers • seller/servicers • commercial paper investors Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2018 Page 1 Program Management The sponsor of an ABCP program initiates the creation of the program but typically does not own the equity of the ABCP program, which is provided by unafﬁliated third-party investors. Despite not owning the equity of the ABCP program, sponsors usually retain a ﬁnancial stake in the program by providing credit enhancement, liquidity support, or both, and they play an active role in managing the pro- gram. Sponsors typically earn fees—such as credit-enhancement, liquidity-facility, and program-management fees—for services pro- vided to their ABCP programs. Typically, an ABCP program makes arrange- ments with various agents/servicers to conduct the administration and daily operation of the ABCP program. This includes such activities as purchasing and selling assets, maintaining oper- ating accounts, and monitoring the ongoing performance of each transaction. The sponsor is also actively engaged in the management of the ABCP program, including underwriting the assets purchased by the ABCP program and the type/level of credit enhancements provided to the ABCP program. Credit-Enhancement Providers The sponsoring banking organization typically provides pool-speciﬁc and program-wide backup liquidity facilities, and program-wide credit enhancements, all of which are usually unrated (pool-speciﬁc credit enhancement, such as over- collateralization, is provided by the seller of the assets). These enhancements are fundamental for obtaining high investment-grade ratings on the commercial paper issued to the market by the ABCP program. Seller-provided credit enhancement may exist in various forms and is generally sized based on the type and credit quality of the underlying assets as well as the quality and ﬁnancial strength of seller/servicers. Higher-quality assets may only need partial support to achieve a satisfactory rating for the commercial paper. Lower-quality assets may need full support. Liquidity-Facility Providers The sponsoring banking organization and, in some cases, unafﬁliated third parties, provide pool-speciﬁc or program-wide liquidity facili- ties. These backup liquidity facilities ensure the timely repayment of commercial paper under certain conditions, such as when ﬁnancial mar- ket disruptions or cash-ﬂow timing mismatches were to occur, but generally not under condi- tions associated with the credit deterioration of the underlying assets or the seller/servicer to the extent that such deterioration is beyond what is permitted under the related asset-quality test. Commercial Paper Investors Commercial paper investors are typically insti- tutional investors, such as pension funds, money market mutual funds, bank trust departments, foreign banks, and investment companies. Com- mercial paper maturities range from 1 day to 270 days, but most frequently are issued for 30 days or less. There is a limited secondary market for commercial paper since issuers can closely match the maturity of the paper to the investors’ needs. Commercial paper investors are gener- ally repaid from the reissuance of new commer- cial paper or from cash ﬂows stemming from the underlying asset pools purchased by the pro- gram. In addition, to ensure timely repayment in the event that new commercial paper cannot be issued or if anticipated cash ﬂows from the underlying assets do not occur, ABCP programs utilize backup liquidity facilities. Furthermore, the banking organization can purchase the ABCP from the conduit if the commercial paper cannot be issued. Pool-speciﬁc and program-wide credit enhancements also protect commercial paper investors from deterioration of the underlying asset pools. THE LOSS W A TERFALL The loss waterfall diagram (on the next page) for the exposures of a typical ABCP program generally has four legally distinct layers. How- ever, most legal documents do not specify which form of credit or liquidity enhancement is in a priority position after pool-speciﬁc credit enhancement is exhausted due to defaults. For example, after becoming aware of weakness in the seller/servicer or in asset performance, an ABCP program sponsor may purchase assets out of the conduit using pool-speciﬁc liquidity. Liquidity agreements must be subject to a valid 3030.1 Overview of Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Programs October 2018 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 asset-quality test that prevents the purchase of defaulted or highly delinquent assets. Liquidity facilities that are not limited by such an asset- quality test are to be viewed as credit enhance- ment and are subject to the risk-based capital requirements applicable to direct-credit substitutes. Pool-Speciﬁc Credit Enhancement The form and size of credit enhancement for each particular asset pool is dependent upon the nature and quality of the asset pool and the seller/servicer’s risk proﬁle. In determining the level of credit enhancement, consideration is given to the seller/servicer’s ﬁnancial strength, quality as a servicer, obligor concentrations, and obligor credit quality, as well as the historic performance of the asset pool. Credit enhance- ment is generally sized to cover a multiple level of historical losses and dilution for the particular asset pool. Pool-speciﬁc credit enhancement can take several forms, including overcollateraliza- tion, cash reserves, seller/servicer guarantees (for only highly rated seller/servicers), and sub- ordination. Credit enhancement can be either dynamic (that is, increases as the asset pool’s performance deteriorates) or static (that is, ﬁxed percentage). Pool-speciﬁc credit enhancement is generally provided by the seller/servicer (or carved out of the asset pool in the case of overcollateralization) but may be provided by other third parties. The ABCP program sponsor or administrator will generally set strict eligibility requirements for the receivables to be included in the pur- chased asset pool. For example, receivable eli- gibility requirements will establish minimum credit ratings or credit scores for the obligors and the maximum number of days the receivable can be past due. Usually the purchased asset pools are struc- Program- Wide Liquidity Pool-Specific Liquidity Program-Wide Credit Enhancement Pool-Specific Credit Enhancement Last Loss First Loss The Loss Waterfall Overview of Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Programs 3030.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2018 Page 3 tured (credit-enhanced) to achieve a credit- quality equivalent of investment grade (that is, BBB or higher). The sponsoring banking orga- nization will typically utilize established rating agency criteria and structuring methodologies to achieve the desired internal rating level. In certain instances, such as when ABCP programs purchase asset-backed securities (ABS), the pool- speciﬁc credit enhancement is already built into the purchased ABS and is reﬂected in the security’s credit rating. The internal rating on the pool-speciﬁc liquidity facility provided to support the purchased asset pool will reﬂect the inclusion of the pool-speciﬁc credit enhance- ment and other structuring protections. Program-Wide Credit Enhancement The second level of contractual credit protection is the program-wide credit enhancement, which may take the form of an irrevocable loan facility, a standby letter of credit, a surety bond from a monoline insurer, or an issuance of subordinated debt. Program-wide credit enhancement protects commercial paper investors if one or more of the underlying transactions exhaust the pool-speciﬁc credit enhancement and other structural protec- tions. The sponsoring banking organization or third-party guarantors are providers of this type of credit protection. The program-wide credit enhancement is generally sized by the rating agencies to cover the potential of multiple defaults in the underlying portfolio of transac- tions within ABCP conduits and takes into account concentration risk among seller/servicers and industry sectors. Pool-Speciﬁc Liquidity Pool-speciﬁc liquidity facilities are an important structural feature in ABCP programs because they ensure timely payment on the issued com- mercial paper by smoothing timing differences in the payment of interest and principal on the pooled assets and ensuring payments in the event of market disruptions. The types of liquid- ity facilities may differ among various ABCP programs and may even differ among asset pools purchased by a single ABCP program. For instance, liquidity facilities may be structured in the form of either (1) an asset-purchase agree- ment, which provides liquidity to the ABCP program by purchasing nondefaulted assets from a speciﬁc asset pool, or (2) a loan to the ABCP program, which is repaid solely by the cash ﬂows from the underlying assets. 1 Some older ABCP programs may have both pool-speciﬁc liquidity and program-wide liquidity coverage, while more-recent ABCP programs tend to uti- lize only pool-speciﬁc facilities. Typically, the seller-provided credit enhancement continues to provide credit protection on an asset pool that is purchased by a liquidity banking organization so that the institution is protected against credit losses that may arise due to subsequent deterio- ration of the pool. Pool-speciﬁc liquidity, when drawn prior to the ABCP program’s credit enhancements, is subject to the credit risk of the underlying asset pool. However, the liquidity facility does not provide direct credit enhancement to the com- mercial paper holders. Thus, the pool-speciﬁc liquidity facility generally is in an economic second-loss position after the seller-provided credit enhancements and prior to the program- wide credit enhancement even when the legal documents state that the program-wide credit enhancement would absorb losses prior to the pool-speciﬁc liquidity facilities. This is because the sponsor of the ABCP program would most likely manage the asset pools in such a way that deteriorating portfolios or assets would be put to the liquidity banking organizations prior to any defaults that would require a draw against the program-wide credit enhancement. 2 While the liquidity banking organization is exposed to the credit risk of the underlying asset pool, the risk is mitigated by the seller-provided credit en- hancement and the asset-quality test. 3 At the time that the asset pool is put to the liquidity banking organization, the facility is usually fully drawn because the entire amount of the pool that qualiﬁes under the asset-quality test is pur- 1. Direct-liquidity loans to an ABCP program may be termed a commissioning agreement (most likely in a foreign bank program) and may share in the security interest in the underlying assets when commercial paper ceases to be issued due to deterioration of the asset pool. 2. In fact, according to the contractual provisions of some conduits, a certain level of draws on the program-wide credit enhancement is a condition for unwinding the conduit pro- gram, which means that this enhancement is never meant to be used. 3. An asset-quality test or liquidity-funding formula deter- mines how much funding the liquidity banking organization will extend to the conduit based on the quality of the underlying asset pool at the time of the draw. Typically, liquidity banking organizations will fund against the conduit’s purchase price of the asset pool less the amount of defaulted assets in the pool. 3030.1 Overview of Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Programs October 2018 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 chased by the banking organization. However, with respect to revolving transactions (such as credit card securitizations) it is possible to average less than 100 percent of the commitment. Program-Wide Liquidity The senior-most position in the waterfall, program-wide liquidity, is provided in an amount sufﬁcient to support that portion of the face amount of all the commercial paper that is issued by the ABCP program that is necessary to achieve the desired external rating on the issued paper. Program-wide liquidity also provides liquidity in the event of a short-term disruption in the commercial paper market. In some cases, a liquidity banking organization that extends a direct liquidity loan to an ABCP program may be able to access the program-wide credit enhancement to cover losses while funding the underlying asset pool. Overview of Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Programs 3030.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2018 Page 5 Prompt Corrective Action Effective date November 2020 Section 3035.1 INTRODUCTION In 1991, Congress enacted a regulatory frame- work to address the problems associated with troubled insured depository institutions with the intent of minimizing the long-term cost to the Deposit Insurance Fund. This legislation led to the enactment of the prompt-corrective-action (PCA) statute, which is contained in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, and added section 38 to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), as amended (12 U.S.C. 1831 o). FDIA section 38 requires regulators to admin- ister timely corrective action to insured deposi- tory institutions when their capital position declines or is deemed to have declined below certain threshold levels as a result of an unsafe or unsound condition or practice. The PCA framework speciﬁes mandatory actions that regu- lators must take as well as discretionary actions they must consider taking. In order to implement PCA as it applies to state member banks (bank), the Federal Reserve Board added subpart D to its Regulation H (12 CFR 208.40 to 208.45). While in practice this discussion refers to the Federal Reserve Board, actions taken within the PCA framework involve consultation between the Reserve Bank staff and the Federal Reserve Board staff. There- fore, inquiries relating to PCA should be directed to appropriate Federal Reserve Board staff. The Federal Reserve Board also added subpart E to its Rules of Practice for Hearings (12 CFR 263.80 to 263.85) to establish procedures for the issuance of notices, directives, and other actions authorized under FDIA section 38 and Regula- tion H. PCA uses capital ratios to trigger speciﬁc actions that are designed to restore a bank to ﬁnancial health. One of the primary sources of the ﬁnancial information for these ratios is the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report). This gives added importance to the review of a bank’s records for accuracy during an examination. Under the PCA statute a bank is assigned to one of ﬁve capital catego- ries: (1) well capitalized, (2) adequately capital- ized, (3) undercapitalized, (4) signiﬁcantly under- capitalized, and (5) critically undercapitalized. See the table at the end of this section for a summary of framework deﬁnitions. As a bank is placed in progressively lower capital categories, FDIA provides for increasingly stringent correc- tive provisions. The Federal Reserve has main- tained the general structure of the existing PCA framework while incorporating increased mini- mum capital requirements, including • In 2013, when the Federal Reserve Board implemented higher minimum capital require- ments and adjusted ratios in four of the ﬁve capital categories of the PCA framework. 1 The rule includes a common equity tier 1 capital requirement, and speciﬁes criteria that instruments must meet in order to be consid- ered common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital. • In 2019, the Federal Reserve Board, Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) adopted a rule that provides for a simple measure of capital adequacy for certain community bank- ing organizations, consistent with section 201 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. This 2019 rule established the community bank leverage ratio (CBLR) framework. A depository institution or depository institution holding company that qualiﬁes and opts into the CBLR framework (12 CFR 217.12) will be considered to have met the “well capitalized” ratio requirements for PCA purposes. For more information on the CBLR framework, see 84 Federal Regis- ter 61,797 (November 13, 2019) and this manual’s section on “Assessment of Capital Adequacy.” PCA CA TEGORIES PCA uses the total risk-based capital measure, tier 1 risk-based capital measure, common equity tier 1 risk-based capital measure, leverage ratio, and tangible equity to total assets ratio for assigning banks to the ﬁve capital categories. 2 1. See the Board’s Regulation Q (12 CFR 217) and 78 Fed. Reg. 62,018 (October 11, 2013). 2. The total risk-based capital ratio is deﬁned as the ratio of qualifying total capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; the tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; the common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is deﬁned as the ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and the tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of tier 1 capital to total average consolidated assets (the Federal Reserve may use Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 1 These ratios are deﬁned in the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation Q, “Capital Adequacy of Bank Holding Companies, Savings and Loan Holding Companies, and State Member Banks.” 3 A bank’s PCA category is based upon capital ratios derived from items such as the Call Report, examination report, bank applications, and reports ﬁled by the bank under banking or securities laws as well as other sources. In general, a bank is deemed to be notiﬁed of its PCA category based upon • the Call Report: as of the date that a bank is required to ﬁle its Call Report, • the Federal Reserve Board or state examina- tion report: as of the third day following the date on the Federal Reserve or state transmit- tal letter to a bank that accompanies the examination report, and • other information: the bank’s receipt of writ- ten notice by the Federal Reserve Board that the bank’s capital category has changed. The Federal Reserve’s notiﬁcation to a bank of its PCA category is important since any bank assigned to the undercapitalized, signiﬁcantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized categories is subject to certain mandatory pro- visions, and may be subject to certain discre- tionary provisions, immediately upon notiﬁca- tion. These mandatory and discretionary provisions are described in detail later. The following are descriptions of the ﬁve PCA capital categories: 1. Well capitalized. The bank has a total risk- based capital ratio of 10.0 percent or greater, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5 percent or greater; and a leverage ratio of 5.0 percent or greater, 4 and the bank is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or PCA direc- tive to meet and maintain a speciﬁc capital level for any capital measure. A qualifying community banking organization, as deﬁned in 12 CFR 217.12, which has elected to use the CBLR framework is considered to have met the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category. In order to qualify for the CBLR framework, a depository insti- tutions or depository institution holding com- pany must have (among other things) a leverage ratio greater than 9.0 percent and less than $10 billion in average total consoli- dated assets. 5 For the complete list of quali- fying criteria for the CBLR framework, see 12 CFR 217.12. 2. Adequately capitalized. The bank has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent or greater, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5 percent or greater; and a leverage ratio of 4.0 percent or greater (or a leverage ratio of 3.0 percent or greater if the bank is rated composite 1 under the CAMELS rating system in its most recent report of examination), and the bank is not experiencing or anticipating signiﬁcant growth and does not meet the deﬁnition of a “well- capitalized” bank. 6 3. Undercapitalized. The bank has a total risk- based capital ratio that is less than 8.0 per- cent, tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0 percent, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.5 percent or a leverage ratio that is less than 4.0 percent (or a leverage ratio that is less than 3.0 percent if the bank is rated composite 1 under the CAMELS rating sys- tem in its most recent report of examination), and the bank is not experiencing or anticipat- ing signiﬁcant growth. 7 4. Signiﬁcantly undercapitalized. The bank has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than period-end total consolidated total assets whenever necessary, on a case-by-case basis). The tangible equity ratio is deﬁned as core capital elements plus cumulative perpetual preferred stock, net of all intangible assets except those amounts of mortgage servicing assets allowable in tier 1 capital. See the Assessment of Capital Adequacy section of this manual for more detailed information. 3. See 12 CFR 217. 4. Beginning on January 1, 2018, any bank that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important bank holding company (referred to as a “G-SIB”) under the deﬁnition of “subsidiary” in 12 CFR 217.2 has a supplementary leverage ratio of 6.0 percent or greater. 5. In March 2020, section 4012 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act provided the agencies with the authority to grant banks with temporary regulatory relief for certain provisions of the CBLR framework. The agencies issued an interim ﬁnal rule to adopt these temporary regula- tory changes. See 85 Fed. Reg. 22,924 (April 23, 2020) for the details and timeframe for this regulatory relief. 6. For an advanced approaches bank or bank that is a Category III Board-regulated institution (as deﬁned in 12 CFR 217.2), a supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0 percent or greater. 7. For an advanced approaches bank or bank that is a Category III Board-regulated institution, a supplementary leverage ratio of less than 3.0 percent. 3035.1 Prompt Corrective Action November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 6.0 percent, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0 percent, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3 percent or a leverage ratio that is less than 3.0 percent. 5. Critically undercapitalized. The bank has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0 percent. 8 EXAMINA TION CONSIDERA TIONS If a bank is deemed undercapitalized, signiﬁ- cantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapi- talized, examiners should discuss the PCA pro- visions with the institution’s management during the examination. Additionally, examiners should caution a bank when its capital ratios approach those found in the undercapitalized category to ensure that proposed dividend or management fee payments do not cause the bank to violate the statute. Any PCA-related comments should be noted in the examination report. The com- ments should be limited to the mandatory pro- visions of the statute, reﬂect the immediacy of these provisions, and clearly indicate that the bank’s receipt of the report of examination serves as notiﬁcation that the bank is subject to PCA provisions. Capital Adequacy Page In the report of examination for most commu- nity banks, the PCA capital ratios appear on the “Capital Adequacy” section of the “Analysis of Financial Factors” page and are generally calcu- lated using the bank’s most recent Call Report. In situations where the impact of examination ﬁndings (for example, loan-loss-reserve adjust- ments or other losses) cause the bank to fall into a lower PCA category, the narrative portion of this examination report page should explicitly state the adjusted PCA ratios and reconcile the adjustments that examiners made. RECLASSIFICA TION In the majority of cases, a bank’s PCA category is deﬁned by its capital ratios indicated in the preceding deﬁnitions. The ﬁnding of an unsafe or unsound condition or practice, however, may lead the Federal Reserve to reclassify a bank’s PCA category to the next lower PCA category than the bank would otherwise qualify for based solely on its capital ratios. 9 In these circum- stances, the Federal Reserve Board may • reclassify a well-capitalized bank to the adequately capitalized category. • require an adequately capitalized bank to comply with one or more supervisory actions speciﬁed by PCA as though the bank is an undercapitalized bank. • impose one or more supervisory actions on an undercapitalized bank that would be autho- rized for a signiﬁcantly undercapitalized bank. While the latter two actions do not strictly represent reclassiﬁcations from one category to another, they are nonetheless collectively referred to as “reclassiﬁcations” for PCA purposes. FDIA section 38 does not automatically sub- ject a bank that has been reclassiﬁed to the next lower capital category to the mandatory restric- tions of the lower category. These mandatory restrictions can only be imposed through the use of a PCA directive, and only those mandatory and discretionary provisions deemed appropri- ate by the Federal Reserve Board will be imposed. A bank can only be reclassiﬁed to the next lower capital category and cannot be classiﬁed as critically undercapitalized on any basis other than its tangible equity ratio . The reclassiﬁcation of a bank for PCA pur- poses may affect the bank’s ability to accept brokered deposits. If a well- or adequately capitalized bank is reclassiﬁed, the bank must obtain an FDIC waiver to accept brokered depos- its, regardless of its actual capital level. (This manual’s Deposit Accounts section contains a detailed discussion on the capital requirements relating to brokered deposit activities.) An “unsafe or unsound condition” is not deﬁned in the PCA statute and assessment and, therefore is left to the discretion of the Federal Reserve Board. Banks determined by the Fed- eral Reserve to be in an unsafe or unsound condition based on the results of the most recent 8. The Federal Reserve may, at its discretion, “calculate total assets using a bank’s period-end assets rather than quarterly average assets.” 12 CFR 208.41(m). 9. See 12 CFR 208.43(c). Prompt Corrective Action 3035.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 3 report of examination or Call Report will be reclassiﬁed. Examiners should consider a bank for reclassiﬁcation if the imposition of the avail- able PCA provisions would assist the bank to return to a safe or sound condition or the bank to institute safe or sound practices. In addition, an “unsafe or unsound practice” is deﬁned as a less-than-satisfactory rating for any of the AMELS ratings for the Asset quality, Manage- ment, Earnings, Liquidity or Sensitivity to mar- ket risk components of the CAMELS rating in the bank’s most recent examination report and that has not been corrected since the examina- tion. The Federal Reserve Board recognizes that certain banks that are candidates for reclassiﬁ- cation may have taken favorable actions that are consistent with the purposes of PCA. 10 In these cases, reclassiﬁcation may not be warranted if • the bank has raised or can demonstrate current efforts to raise enough capital to become and remain well capitalized for the foreseeable future, and • the bank has attempted to be in substantial compliance with all provisions of any out- standing informal or formal enforcement action, management is addressing existing problems and is considered satisfactory, and the bank’s condition is stable and shows signs of improvement. Where reclassiﬁcation is determined to be appropriate, the Federal Reserve Board will provide the bank with a written notice specify- ing its intention to reclassify the bank, along with an explanation of the reasons for the downgrade. The date of the reclassiﬁcation and the required PCA provisions can be made effec- tive either at a speciﬁed future date or, under certain circumstances, immediately, at the dis- cretion of the Federal Reserve Board. A bank is entitled to appeal a reclassiﬁcation, which includes the opportunity for an informal hear- ing, following the receipt of a written notice. The appeal and hearing procedures are set out in subpart H of the Federal Reserve Board’s Rules of Practice for Hearings in section 263.203 (12 CFR 263.203). PCA PROVISIONS Provisions Applicable to All Banks Two provisions are applicable to all banks (including well capitalized and adequately capi- talized banks): 1. A bank may not pay dividends or make any other capital distributions that would leave it undercapitalized. 11 2. A bank may not pay a management fee to a controlling person if, after paying the fee, the bank would be undercapitalized. Manage- ment fees subject to this restriction include those relating to supervisory, executive, mana- gerial, or policymaking functions, other than compensation to an individual in the indi- vidual’s capacity as an ofﬁcer or employee of the bank. This does not include fees relating to nonmanagerial services provided by the controlling person, such as data processing, trust activities, mortgage services, audit and accounting, property management, or similar services. Restrictions on Advertising The Federal Reserve Board prohibits banks from advertising its PCA capital category. 12 However, banks are not restricted from adver- tising their capital levels or ﬁnancial condition. Provisions Applicable to Undercapitalized Banks A bank categorized as undercapitalized is sub- ject to several mandatory provisions that become effective upon the Federal Reserve Board noti- 10. FDIA section 38 explains that the purpose of PCA “is to resolve the problems of insured depository institutions at the least possible long-term loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund.” 12 U.S.C. 1831o(a)(1). 11. FDIA section 38 (12 U.S.C. 1831o(d)(1)(B)) requires that the Federal Reserve Board consult with the FDIC before approving a capital distribution under this section. Section 38 also contains a limited exception to the restrictions on capital distributions for certain types of stock redemptions that (1) the Federal Reserve Board has approved, (2) are made in connec- tion with an equivalent issue of additional shares or obliga- tions, and (3) will improve the bank’s ﬁnancial condition. See 12 U.S.C. 1831o(d)(1)(B). The Federal Reserve Board may also impose restrictions on capital distributions on any com- pany that controls a signiﬁcantly undercapitalized bank. 12. See 12 CFR 208.40(d). 3035.1 Prompt Corrective Action November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 fying the bank. Under the mandatory provisions, an undercapitalized bank • must cease paying dividends. • is prohibited from paying management fees to a controlling person (see the previous subsec- tion for exceptions). • is subject to increased monitoring by the Federal Reserve Board and periodic review of the bank’s efforts to restore its capital. • must ﬁle and implement a capital restoration plan generally within 45 days. Undercapital- ized banks that fail to submit or implement a capital restoration plan are also subject to the provisions applicable to signiﬁcantly under- capitalized banks. • may acquire interest in a company, open any new branch ofﬁces, or engage in a new line of business only if the following three require- ments are met: — the Federal Reserve Board has accepted its capital restoration plan, — any increase in total assets is consistent with the capital restoration plan, and — the bank’s ratio of tangible equity to assets increases during the calendar quarter at a rate sufﬁcient to enable the bank to become adequately capitalized within a reasonable time. In addition to the mandatory provisions, a num- ber of discretionary provisions may be imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on an undercapi- talized bank. These include • requiring recapitalization by doing one or more of the following: — That the bank sell enough additional capi- tal or debt to ensure that it would be adequately capitalized after the sale. — That the aforementioned additional capital be voting shares. — That the bank accept an offer to be acquired by another institution or company, or that any company that controls the bank be required to divest itself of the bank. • restricting transactions between the bank and its afﬁliates. • restricting the interest rates paid on deposits collected by the bank to the prevailing rates paid on comparable amounts in the region where the bank is located. • restricting the bank’s asset growth or requir- ing the bank to reduce its total assets. • requiring the bank or any of its subsidiaries to terminate, reduce, or alter any activity deter- mined by the Federal Reserve Board to pose excessive risk to the bank. • ordering a new election of the board of direc- tors, dismissing certain senior executive ofﬁ- cers, or hiring new ofﬁcers. • prohibiting the acceptance, renewal, and roll- over of deposits from correspondent deposi- tory institutions. • prohibiting any bank holding company that controls the bank from making any capital distribution, including but not limited to divi- dend payment, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. • requiring the bank to divest or liquidate any subsidiary that is in danger of becoming insolvent and that poses a signiﬁcant risk to the bank, or is likely to cause signiﬁcant dissipation of its assets or earnings. • requiring any company that controls the bank to divest or liquidate any afﬁliate of the bank (other than another insured depository institu- tion) if the Federal Reserve Board determines that the afﬁliate is in danger of becoming insolvent and poses a signiﬁcant risk to the bank, or is likely to cause signiﬁcant dissipa- tion of the bank’s assets or earnings. • requiring the bank to take any other action that would more effectively carry out the purpose of PCA than the above actions. Provisions Applicable to Signiﬁcantly Undercapitalized Banks The mandatory restrictions applicable to under- capitalized banks also apply to banks that are signiﬁcantly undercapitalized. In addition, a sig- niﬁcantly undercapitalized bank is restricted in paying bonuses or raises to senior executive ofﬁcers of the bank unless it receives prior written approval from the Federal Reserve Board. If a bank fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan, however, no such bonuses or raises may be paid until an acceptable plan has been submitted. The Federal Reserve Board must take the following actions unless it is determined that these actions would not further the purpose of PCA (resolution at the least possible long-term loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund): • Require one or more of the following: Prompt Corrective Action 3035.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 5 — That the bank sell enough additional capi- tal or debt to ensure that it would be adequately capitalized after the sale. — That the aforementioned additional capital be voting shares. — That the bank accept an offer to be acquired by another institution or company, or that any company that controls the bank be required to divest itself of the bank. • Restrict the bank’s transactions with afﬁliates. • Restrict the interest rates paid on deposits collected by the bank to the prevailing rates paid on comparable amounts in the region where the bank is located. In addition to these mandatory provisions, the Federal Reserve Board will impose one or more of the discretionary provisions for undercapital- ized banks on a signiﬁcantly undercapitalized bank. Moreover, other measures (including the provisions for critically undercapitalized banks) may be required if the Federal Reserve Board determines that such actions will advance the purpose of PCA. 13 Provisions Applicable to Critically Undercapitalized Banks A critically undercapitalized bank must be placed in conservatorship (with the concurrence of the FDIC) or receivership within 90 days, unless the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC concur that other action would better achieve the pur- poses of PCA. The statute also addresses require- ments in deferring the placing of a critically undercapitalized bank in conservatorship or receivership. 14 A bank must be placed in receivership if it continues to be critically undercapitalized on average 15 during the fourth calendar quarter following the period that it initially became critically undercapitalized, unless the Federal Reserve Board, with the FDIC’s concurrence, determines that • the bank has a positive net worth. • the bank has been in substantial compliance with its capital restoration plan since the date of the plan’s approval. • the bank is proﬁtable or has a sustainable upward trend in earnings. • the bank is reducing its ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans. • the chair of the Federal Reserve Board and the chair of the FDIC both certify that the bank is viable and not expected to fail. Beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, critically undercapitalized banks are also prohibited from making any payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt issued by the bank without the prior approval of the FDIC. Unpaid interest, however, may continue to accrue on subordinated debt under the terms of the debt instrument. The FDIC is also required, at a minimum, to prohibit a critically undercapitalized bank from doing any of the following without the prior written approval of the FDIC: • entering into any material transaction not in the usual course of business. Such activities include any investment, expansion, acquisi- tion, sale of assets, or other similar action where the bank would have to notify the Federal Reserve. • extending credit for any highly leveraged transaction. • amending the bank’s charter or bylaws, except to the extent necessary to carry out any other requirement of any law, regulation, or order. • making any material change in accounting methods. • engaging in any covered transaction under section 23A(b) of the Federal Reserve Act. • paying excessive compensation or bonuses. • paying interest on new or renewed liabilities that would increase the bank’s weighted average cost of funds to a level signiﬁcantly exceeding the prevailing rates of interest paid on insured deposits in the bank’s normal market area. Capital Restoration Plans A bank that is undercapitalized, signiﬁcantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized must submit an acceptable capital restoration 13. 12 U.S.C. 1831o(f)(3). 14. 12 U.S.C. 1831o(h)(3). 15. The average is determined by adding the sum of the total tangible equity ratio at the close of business on each day during the quarter and dividing that sum by the number of business days in that quarter. 3035.1 Prompt Corrective Action November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 6 plan to the Federal Reserve Board. This plan must be submitted in writing and specify— • the steps the bank will take to become adequately capitalized; • the levels of capital the bank expects to attain each year that the plan is in effect; • how the bank will comply with the restrictions and requirements imposed on it under FDIA section 38; • the types and levels of activities in which the bank will engage; and • any other information required by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board cannot accept a capital restoration plan unless the plan • contains the information required in the pre- ceding ﬁve points; • is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the bank’s capital; • would not appreciably increase the risk (including credit risk, interest-rate risk, and other types of risk) to which the bank is exposed; and • contains a guarantee from each company that controls the bank, specifying that the bank will comply with the plan until it has been adequately capitalized on average during each of four consecutive calendar quarters, and each company has provided appropriate assur- ances of performance. (See the subsequent subsection, “Capital Restoration Plan Guaran- tee,” for additional information.) Submission and Review of Capital Plans The Federal Reserve Board has established rules regarding a uniform schedule for the ﬁling and review of capital restoration plans. These rules require a bank to submit a capital restoration plan within 45 days after the bank has received notice, or has been deemed to have been noti- ﬁed, that it is undercapitalized, signiﬁcantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized. The Federal Reserve Board may change this period in individual cases, provided it notiﬁes the bank that a different schedule has been adopted. The Federal Reserve Board must also • review each capital restoration plan within 60 days of the bank’s submission of the plan unless it extends the review time; • provide written notice to the bank about whether it has approved or rejected the capital plan; and • provide a copy of each acceptable capital restoration plan, and amendments thereto, to the FDIC within 45 days of accepting the plan. There are two cases where a capital restoration plan may not be required: 1. When a bank has capital ratios consistent with those corresponding to the adequately capitalized category but, due to unsafe or unsound conditions or practices, has been reclassiﬁed to the undercapitalized category. (If the Federal Reserve requires a plan solely due to such a reclassiﬁcation, the plan should specify the steps the bank will take to correct the unsafe or unsound condition or practice.) 2. When a bank’s capital category changes, but the bank is already operating under a capital restoration plan accepted by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve Board will examine the circumstances of each of the above cases to determine whether a bank must submit a revised plan. Capital Restoration Plan Guarantee The Federal Reserve Board cannot approve a capital restoration plan unless each company that controls the bank has guaranteed the bank’s compliance with the plan and has provided reasonable assurances of performance. The Fed- eral Reserve Board will consider on a case-by- case basis the appropriate type of guarantee for multi-tier holding companies, or parent hold- ing companies that are shell companies or that have limited resources. A guarantee that is backed by a contractual pledge of resources from a parent company may satisfy the require- ments of FDIA section 38, particularly in situ- ations involving the ownership of an insured bank by a foreign holding company through a wholly owned domestic shell holding. In other situations, a third-party guarantee made by a party with adequate ﬁnancial resources may be satisfactory. PCA also contains several provisions that clarify the capital restoration plan guarantee: Prompt Corrective Action 3035.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 7 • Limitation on liability. The aggregate amount of liability under the guarantee for all compa- nies that control a speciﬁc bank is limited to the lesser of (1) an amount equal to 5 percent of the bank’s total assets, or (2) the amount necessary to restore the relevant capital ratios of the bank to the level required for the bank to be categorized as adequately capitalized. • Limitation on duration. The guarantee and limit on liability expires after the Federal Reserve Board notiﬁes the bank that it has remained adequately capitalized for each of the previous four consecutive calendar quar- ters. • Collection of guarantee. Each company that controls a given bank is jointly and severally liable for the guarantee. • Failure to provide a guarantee. A bank will be treated as if it had not submitted an acceptable capital restoration plan if its capital plan does not contain the required guarantee. • Failure to perform under a guarantee. A bank will be treated as if it failed to implement the capital restoration plan if any company that controls the bank fails to perform its guarantee. Failure to Submit an Acceptable Capital Plan An undercapitalized bank that fails to submit or implement, in any material respect, an accept- able capital restoration plan within the required period is subject to the same provisions appli- cable to a bank that is signiﬁcantly undercapi- talized. If a bank’s capital restoration plan is rejected by the Federal Reserve Board, the bank is required to submit a new capital plan within the time period speciﬁed by the Federal Reserve Board. During the period following notice of the rejection, and before Federal Reserve Board approval of a new or revised capital plan, the bank is treated in the same manner as a signiﬁ- cantly undercapitalized bank. ISSUANCE OF PCA DIRECTIVES The Federal Reserve Board must provide a bank, or company controlling a bank (com- pany), a written notice of proposed action under FDIA section 38 (referred to as a directive), unless the circumstances of a particular case indicate that immediate action is necessary to serve the purpose of PCA. These directives are issued for reasons such as reclassifying a bank and implementing discretionary provisions, the latter of which includes the dismissal of direc- tors or senior executive ofﬁcers. A notice of intent to issue a directive should include • a statement of the bank’s capital measures and levels; • a description of the restrictions, prohibitions, or afﬁrmative actions that the Federal Reserve Board proposes to impose or require; • the proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would be effective or the pro- posed date for completion of such afﬁrmative actions; and • the date by which the bank or company subject to the directive may ﬁle with the Federal Reserve Board a written response to the notice. When a directive becomes effective at a future date, the Federal Reserve Board must provide the bank or company an opportunity to appeal the directive before taking ﬁnal action. This requires the bank to submit information relevant to the decision within the time period set by the Federal Reserve Board, which must be at least 14 calendar days from the date of the notice, unless the Federal Reserve Board deter- mines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the ﬁnancial condition of the bank or other relevant circumstances. In the case of a directive that is immediately effective upon notiﬁcation of the bank, the Federal Reserve Board’s rules provide an oppor- tunity for the bank or company to seek an expedited modiﬁcation or rescission of the direc- tive. A bank or company that appeals a directive effective immediately is required to ﬁle a written appeal within 14 days of receiving the notice, and the Federal Reserve Board will consider the appeal within 60 days of receiving it. During the period that the appeal is under review the directive remains in effect, unless the Federal Reserve Board stays the effectiveness of the directive. 3035.1 Prompt Corrective Action November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 8 Dismissal of Directors or Senior Executive Ofﬁcers The Federal Reserve Board’s rules establish a special procedure permitting an opportunity for senior executive ofﬁcers and directors dismissed from a bank as a result of a PCA directive to petition the Federal Reserve Board for reinstate- ment. A director or senior executive ofﬁcer who is required to be dismissed in compliance with a Federal Reserve Board directive may have the dismissal reviewed by ﬁling, within 10 days, a request for reinstatement with the Federal Reserve Board. The respondent will also be given the opportunity to submit written materi- als in support of the petition and to appear at an informal hearing before representatives of the Federal Reserve Board. Unless otherwise ordered by the Federal Reserve Board, the dismissal remains in effect while a request for reinstate- ment is pending. No later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Federal Reserve Board shall grant or deny the request for reinstatement and notify the respondent of the Federal Reserve Board’s decision. The date for the hearing and for the ultimate decision follows the same timeframe as that indicated for the appeals process in the preceding paragraph. Enforcement of Directives PCA directives may be enforced in the federal courts, and may also subject any bank, com- pany, or institution-afﬁliated party that violates the directive to civil money penalties or other enforcement actions. The failure of a bank to implement a capital restoration plan, or the failure of a company having control of a state member bank to fulﬁll a guarantee that the company has given in connection with a capital plan accepted by the Federal Reserve Board, could subject the bank or company or any of their institution-afﬁliated parties to a civil money penalty assessment. Prompt Corrective Action 3035.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 9 TABLE 1—SUMMARY OF SPECIFICA TIONS OF CAPITAL CA TEGORIES FOR PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION FOR INSTITUTIONS NOT SUBJECT TO THE COMMUNITY BANK LEVERAGE RA TIO FRAMEWORK Capital Category Total Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Measure Tier 1 RBC Measure Common Equity Tier 1 RBC Measure Leverage Measure Well Capitalized 10% or more and 8% or more and 6.5% or more and 5% or more* and Adequately Capitalized 8% or more and 6% or more and 4.5% or more and 4% or more** Under- capitalized less than 8% or less than 6% or less than 4.5% or less than 4%** Signiﬁcantly Under- capitalized less than 6% or less than 4% or less than 3% or less than 3% Critically Under- capitalized tangible equity to total assets ratio of 2% or less * For a bank that is a subsidiary of a G-SIB, a supplementary leverage ratio of 6.0 percent or more. ** For an advanced approaches bank or bank that is a Category III Board-regulated institution, a supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0 percent or more. 3035.1 Prompt Corrective Action November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 10 Prompt Corrective Action Examination Objectives Effective date November 2020 Section 3035.2 1. To assess whether prompt-corrective-action (PCA) provisions are necessary. 2. To assess whether the policies, practices, and procedures are in place to ensure compliance with PCA mandatory and discretionary provisions. 3. To verify that undercapitalized, signiﬁcantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapital- ized banks have effective capital restoration plans that comply with PCA. Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 1 Prompt Corrective Action Examination Procedures Effective date November 2020 Section 3035.3 1. During on-site examinations, validate the state member bank’s capital levels, risk- weighted assets, and capital ratios in compli- ance with primary capital provisions of sec- tion 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) and the Federal Reserve’s respective capital adequacy rules. (See this manual’s section on the Assessment of Capital Ad- equacy and 12 CFR 217.) Verify that the bank’s a. capital instruments are appropriate for inclusion in common equity tier 1, tier 1, or tier 2 capital. b. assets were properly risk-weighted and that the appropriate credit equivalent mea- sure (for example, the credit-conversion factors, credit-rating factors) were assigned for the bank’s off-balance-sheet assets or transactions. 2. When a state member bank is considered undercapitalized, signiﬁcantly undercapital- ized, or critically undercapitalized, discuss with the bank’s management the prompt corrective action restrictions under FDIA section 38 and the Board’s Regulation H (12 CFR 208, subpart D). 3. When a state member bank is operating with an amount of consolidated capital that is near the undercapitalized levels, caution the board of directors and senior management about their ensuring that any proposed dividend or management fee payments do not cause the bank to violate FDIA section 38. 4. When the impact of the bank’s examination ﬁndings (for example, loan-loss-reserve adjustments or other losses) will cause the bank to fall into a lower prompt-corrective- action category, explicitly state in the narra- tive portion of the capital examination report page the adjusted prompt-corrective-action capital ratios with a clear account of the adjustments that were made to the quarter- end or period-end ratios. 5. Include in the appropriate report page of the state member bank examination report any comments regarding the applicability of FDIA section 38 and Regulation H pertaining to prompt corrective action. With regard to prompt corrective action, limit the comments to the mandatory restrictions of the statute and the immediacy of those provisions. State that the receipt of the state member bank examination report serves as notiﬁcation that the bank is subject to prompt corrective action. Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 1 Earnings—Analytical Review of Income and Expense Effective date October 2018 Section 3100.1 INTRODUCTION From a regulator’s standpoint, the essential purpose of bank earnings, both current and accumulated, is to absorb losses and augment capital. Earnings is the initial safeguard against the risks that a bank incurs in the course of doing business, and represents a bank’s ﬁrst line of defense against capital depletion resulting from a decline in the value of its assets. This section is designed to provide a high-level overview for examiners in assessing a bank’s earning through the use of analytical review techniques. Examiners need to remain cognizant of the inextricable links among capital, asset quality, earnings, liquidity, and market risk sen- sitivity. GENERAL EXAMINA TION APPROACH As part of the off-site preparation for an on-site examination, examiners review and analyze a bank’s ﬁnancial condition. (See the manual sections entitled, “Examination Strategy and Risk-Focused Examinations” and “Federal Reserve System Bank Surveillance Program.”) This analysis is meant to identify potential problem areas and to develop the examination scope so that proper staff levels and appropriate examination procedures can be used. The analysis of earnings includes all bank operations and activities. When evaluating earn- ings, examiners should develop an understand- ing of the bank’s core business activities. Core activities are those operations that are part of a bank’s normal or continuing business. Examin- ers should understand a bank’s composition of earnings and sustainability of the various earn- ings components. This would include balance- sheet composition, particularly the volume and type of earning assets and off-balance-sheet items, if applicable. ANAL YTICAL REVIEW In performing the analytical review of a bank, examiners should use the most recent Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) as well as the most recent ﬁnancial statements and other related ﬁnancial information that supports the source and trend in the bank’s earnings. A well-performed analytical review provides exam- iners with an understanding of the bank’s opera- tions. An analytical review of bank earnings highlights matters of interest and potential prob- lem situations which, examiners will need to address with the bank. In reviewing and assess- ing a bank’s earning, examiners perform level and trend analysis of ﬁnancial report data and ratios as well as reviewing other metrics. Ana- lytical review is based on the assumption that period-to-period balances and ratios are free from signiﬁcant error considering the proce- dures relating to income and expenses, and regulatory reports conducted by internal or exter- nal auditors. (See the manual section entitled, “Internal Control and Audit Function, Over- sight, and Outsourcing,” for a discussion of factors to consider in reviewing the audit work of others.) Analytical Tools The UBPR and the bank’s ﬁnancial statements are key sources of analysis for examination staff. Bank-prepared statements and supplemen- tal schedules, if available, facilitate an in-depth analytical review. The information from those schedules may give examiners considerable insight into the interpretation of the bank’s basic ﬁnancial statements. To properly understand and interpret a particular bank’s ﬁnancial and statis- tical data, examiners should be familiar with current economic and industry conditions, includ- ing any idiosyncratic cyclical or seasonal factors in the nation, region, and local area that may have an affect on the bank’s earnings. Economic and industry information, reports, and journals are useful informational sources of industry conditions and trends. Finally, examiners should be knowledgeable about new banking laws and new accounting standards or methodologies that could have a material effect on ﬁnancial institu- tions’ business and earnings. UBPR The information used to prepare UBPRs are largely based on the Consolidated Reports of Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2018 Page 1 Condition and Income (Call Report). Each UBPR also contains corresponding average data for the bank’s peer group (a group of banks of similar asset size and reporting characteristics) and percentile rankings for most ratios. The UBPR facilitates the evaluation of a bank’s current condition, trends in its ﬁnancial performance, and comparisons with the performance of its peer group. The user’s guide for the UBPR explains how a structured approach to ﬁnancial analysis should be followed. 1 This approach breaks down a bank’s income stream into its major components of interest margin performance, overhead, non- interest income, loan-loss provisions, tax fac- tors, and extraordinary items. These major com- ponents can then be broken down into various subcomponents. Also, examiners should analyze the balance-sheet composition along with eco- nomic conditions to understand the source and future variability of a bank’s income stream. The dollar amounts displayed for most income and expense items in the UBPR are shown for the year-to-date period. However, to allow com- parison of ratios between quarters, income and expense and related data used in certain ratios are annualized for interim reporting periods. Thus, the income or expense item is multiplied by the indicated factor listed below before dividing it by the corresponding asset or liabil- ity. The UBPR annualization factors are • March 4.0, • June 2.0, and • September 1.3333. Income and expense information reported on the December 31 Call Report is not annualized. Since the year-end UBPR represents a full ﬁscal year. Frequently, examiners need a more detailed and current review of a bank’s ﬁnancial condi- tion than that provided by the UBPR. Under certain circumstances, UBPR procedures may need to be supplemented because— • asset-quality information must be linked to the income stream; • more detailed information is necessary on asset-liability maturities and matching; • more detailed information is necessary on other liquidity aspects, as they may affect earnings; • yield or cost information, which may be difﬁcult to interpret from the report, is needed; • certain income or expense items may need clariﬁcation, as well as normal examination validation; • volume information, such as the number of demand deposits, certiﬁcates of deposit, and other accounts, is not reported, and vulnerabil- ity in a bank subject to concentrations nor- mally should be considered; • components of interest and fees on loans are not reported separately by category of loan; thus, adverse trends in the loan portfolio may not be detected (for example, the yield of a particular bank’s loan portfolio may be similar to those of its peer group, but examiners may detect an upward trend in yields for a speciﬁc category of loans. That upward trend might be partially or wholly offset by a downward trend of yields in another category of loans, and examiners should consider further investigat- ing the circumstances applicable to each of those loan categories. A change in yields could be a result of a change in the bank’s business model or risk “appetite” for certain types of loans or may indicate a change in loan underwriting standards.); or • income or expense resulting from a change in the bank’s operations, such as the opening of a new branch or starting of a mortgage bank- ing activity or trust department, may skew performance ratios. (When there has been a signiﬁcant change in a bank’s operations, examiners should analyze the potential impact of the change on future bank earnings.) Review of Management’ s Budget and Financial Statements In addition to UBPR analysis, examiners should incorporate a review of management’s budget and/or ﬁnancial projections. In reviewing a bank’s projections and individual variances from its operating budget, examiners should be able to identify the sources and trends in the bank’s prior and future earnings. Examiners should also verify the reasonableness of the budgeted amounts, frequency of budget review by bank management and the board of directors, and level of involvement of key bank personnel in the budget process. 1. The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) provides additional information on the UBPR, includ- ing the UBPR User’s Guide at www.fﬁec.gov/ubpr.htm. 3100.1 Earnings—Analytical Review of Income and Expense October 2018 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 In reviewing a bank’s ﬁnancial statements, examiners should be cognizant of new account- ing standards or changes in accounting method- ologies. In addition, alternative accounting treat- ments for similar transactions among peer banks also should be considered because they may produce signiﬁcantly different results. The ana- lytical review must be based on ﬁgures derived under valid accounting practices consistently applied, particularly in the accrual areas. Accord- ingly, during the analytical review, examiners should work with Reserve Bank accounting specialists to determine any material inconsis- tencies in the application of accounting prin- ciples. Review of Nonrecurring and Extraordinary Items When assessing earnings, examiners should be aware of nonrecurring events or actions that have affected a bank’s earnings performance, positively or negatively, and should adjust earn- ings on a tax equivalent (TE) basis for compari- son purposes. Although the analysis should reﬂect adjustments for non-recurring events, examiners should also include within their analy- sis the impact that these items had on overall earnings performance. Examples of events that may affect earnings include adoption of new accounting standards, extraordinary items, or other actions taken by management that are not considered part of a bank’s normal operations such as sales of securities for tax purposes or for some other reason unrelated to active manage- ment of the securities portfolio. The exclusion of nonrecurring events from the analysis allows examiners to analyze the proﬁtability of a bank’s core operations without the distortions caused by non-recurring items. By adjusting for these distortions, examiners are better able to compare a bank’s current earnings performance against the bank’s past perfor- mance and industry norms (for example, peer group data). Compliance with Laws and Regulations Relating to Earnings and Dividends Examiners should consider the interrelation- ships that exist among the dividend-payout ratio, the rate of growth of retained earnings, and the bank’s ability to cover losses and maintain adequate capital. A bank’s earnings should also be more than sufﬁciently adequate in relation to its current dividend rate. In particular, examiners should consider whether a bank’s dividend rate is prudent relative to its ﬁnancial position and not based on overly optimistic earnings sce- narios. See SR-09-4, “Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Re- purchases at Bank Holding Companies.” 2 Pru- dent management dictates that a bank should consider the curtailment of the dividend rate if capital is inadequate and greater earnings reten- tion is required. If it appears that a bank’s dividend payout isexcessive or that there is a record of recent operating losses, examiners should refer to sections 5199(b) and 5204 of the United States Revised Statutes and section 208.19 of Regulation H which restrict state member bank dividends. See also this manual’s section entitled, “Dividends.” ASSIGNING THE EARNINGS RA TING After performing the appropriate examination procedures and documenting the supervisory assessment of a bank, examiners assign a com- ponent Uniform Financial Institution Ratings System rating based on an evaluation of a banks earnings. Examiners assign a rating that ad- dresses the quantity and trend of a bank’s earnings, as well as factors that may affect the sustainability or quality of earnings. The quan- tity as well as the quality of a bank’s earnings can be affected by excessive or inadequately managed credit risk that may result in loan losses and require additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses, or by high levels of market risk that may unduly expose an institution’s earnings to volatility in interest rates. 3 The quality of earnings may also be diminished by undue reliance on extraordinary gains, nonrecur- ring events, or favorable tax effects. Future earnings may be adversely affected by an inabil- 2. See also the Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual for a discussion of the Board’s “Policy Statement on the Payment of Cash Dividends by State Member Banks and Bank Holding Companies.” 3. See this manual’s section entitled, “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses,” for more information. Earnings—Analytical Review of Income and Expense 3100.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2018 Page 3 ity to forecast or control funding and operating expenses, improperly executed or ill-advised business strategies, or poorly managed or uncon- trolled exposure to other risks. Examiners base their rating of a bank’s earn- ings based upon, but not limited to, an assess- ment of the following evaluation factors: • the level of earnings, including trends and stability • the bank’s ability to provide for adequate capital through retained earnings • the quality and sources of earnings • the level of expenses in relation to the bank’s operations • the adequacy of the bank’s budgeting systems, forecasting processes, and management infor- mation systems in general • the adequacy of the bank’s provisions for the allowance for loan and lease losses and other valuation allowance accounts • the earnings exposure to market risk such as interest rate, foreign exchange, and price risks 3100.1 Earnings—Analytical Review of Income and Expense October 2018 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 Earnings—Analytical Review of Income and Expense Examination Procedures Effective date May 2022 Section 3100.3 Examination procedures are available on the Examination Documentation (ED) modules page on the Board’s website. See the following ED module for examination procedures on this topic: • Earnings Commercial Bank Examination Manual May 2022 Page 1 Liquidity Risk Effective date October 2016 Section 3200.1 FACTORS INFLUENCING LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT AND TYPES OF LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is a ﬁnancial institution’s capacity to meet its cash and collateral obligations without incurring unacceptable losses. Adequate liquid- ity is dependent upon the institution’s ability to efﬁciently meet both expected and unexpected cash ﬂows and collateral needs without adversely affecting either daily operations or the ﬁnancial condition of the institution. An institution’s obligations and the funding sources used to meet them depend signiﬁcantly on its business mix, balance-sheet structure, and the cash-ﬂow proﬁles of its on- and off-balance- sheet obligations. In managing their cash ﬂows, institutions confront various situations that can give rise to increased liquidity risk. These include funding mismatches, market constraints on the ability to convert assets into cash or in accessing sources of funds (i.e., market liquid- ity), and contingent liquidity events. Changes in economic conditions or exposure to credit, market, operation, legal, and reputation risks also can affect an institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle and should be considered in the assess- ment of liquidity and asset/liability manage- ment. Liquidity risk is the risk to an institution’s ﬁnancial condition or safety and soundness aris- ing from its inability (whether real or perceived) to meet its contractual obligations. Because banking organizations employ a signiﬁcant amount of leverage in their business activities— and need to meet contractual obligations in order to maintain the conﬁdence of customers and fund providers—adequate liquidity is criti- cal to an institution’s ongoing operation, proﬁt- ability, and safety and soundness. To ensure it has adequate liquidity, an insti- tution must balance the costs and beneﬁts of liquidity: Too little liquidity can expose an institution to an array of signiﬁcant negative repercussions arising from its inability to meet contractual obligations. Conversely, too much liquidity can entail substantial opportunity costs and have a negative impact on the ﬁrm’s proﬁtability. Effective liquidity management entails the following three elements: • assessing, on an ongoing basis, the current and expected future needs for funds, and ensuring that sufﬁcient funds or access to funds exists to meet those needs at the appropriate time • providing for an adequate cushion of liquidity with a stock of liquid assets to meet unantici- pated cash-ﬂow needs that may arise from a continuum of potential adverse circumstances that can range from high-probability/low- severity events that occur in daily operations to low-probability/high-severity events that occur less frequently but could signiﬁcantly affect an institution’s safety and soundness • striking an appropriate balance between the beneﬁts of providing for adequate liquidity to mitigate potential adverse events and the cost of that liquidity The primary role of liquidity-risk manage- ment is to (1) prospectively assess the need for funds to meet obligations and (2) ensure the availability of cash or collateral to fulﬁll those needs at the appropriate time by coordinating the various sources of funds available to the institution under normal and stressed conditions. Funds needs arise from the myriad of banking activities and ﬁnancial transactions that create contractual obligations to deliver funds, includ- ing business initiatives for asset growth, the provision of various ﬁnancial products and trans- action services, and expected and unexpected changes in assets and the liabilities used to fund assets. Liquidity managers have an array of alternative sources of funds to meet their liquid- ity needs. These sources generally fall within one of four broad categories: • net operating cash ﬂows • the liquidation of assets • the generation of liabilities • an increase in capital funds Funds obtained from operating cash ﬂows arise from net interest payments on assets; net principal payments related to the amortization and maturity of assets; and the receipt of funds from various types of liabilities, transactions, and service fees. Institutions obtain liquidity from operating cash ﬂows by managing the Note: The guidance complements existing guidance in the Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual (section 4010.2) and various SR-letters (see the ‘‘References’’ section). Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2016 Page 1 timing and maturity of their asset and liability cash ﬂows, including their ongoing borrowing and debt-issuance programs. Funds can also be obtained by reducing or liquidating assets. Most institutions incorporate scheduled asset maturities and liquidations as part of their ongoing management of operating cash ﬂows. They also use the potential liquida- tion of a portion of their assets (generally a portion of the investment portfolio) as a contin- gent source of funds to meet cash needs under adverse liquidity circumstances. Such contin- gent funds need to be unencumbered for the purposes of selling or lending the assets and are often termed liquidity reserves or liquidity ware- houses and are a critical element of safe and sound liquidity management. Assessments of the value of unencumbered assets should repre- sent the amount of cash that can be obtained from monetized assets under normal as well as stressed conditions. Asset securitization is another method that some institutions use to fund assets. Securitiza- tion involves the transformation of on-balance- sheet loans (e.g., auto, credit card, com- mercial, student, home equity, and mortgage loans) into packaged groups of loans in vari- ous forms, which are subsequently sold to investors. Depending on the business model employed, securitization proceeds can be both a material source of ongoing funding and a signiﬁcant tool for meeting future funding needs. Securitization markets may provide a good source of funding; however, institutions should be cautious in relying too heavily on this market as it has been known to shutdown under market stress situations. Funds are also generated through deposit- taking activities, borrowings, and overall liabil- ity management. Borrowed funds may include secured lending and unsecured debt obligations across the maturity spectrum. In the short term, borrowed funds may include purchased fed funds and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repos). Longer-term borrowed funds may include various types of deposit products, collateralized loans, and the issuance of corpo- rate debt. Depending on their contractual char- acteristics and the behavior of fund providers, borrowed funds can vary in maturity and avail- ability because of their sensitivity to general market trends in interest rates and various other market factors. Considerations speciﬁc to the borrowing institution also affect the maturity and availability of borrowed funds. External Factors and Exposure to Other Risks The liquidity needs of a ﬁnancial institution and the sources of liquidity available to meet those needs depend signiﬁcantly on the institution’s business mix and balance-sheet structure, as well as on the cash-ﬂow proﬁles of its on- and off-balance-sheet obligations. While manage- ment largely determines these internal attributes, external factors and the institution’s exposure to various types of ﬁnancial and operating risks, including interest-rate, credit, operational, legal, and reputational risks, also inﬂuence its liquidity proﬁle. As a result, an institution should assess and manage liquidity needs and sources by considering the potential consequences of changes in external factors along with the institution-speciﬁc determinants of its liquidity proﬁle. Changes in Interest Rates The level of prevailing market interest rates, the term structure of interest rates, and changes in both the level and term structure of rates can signiﬁcantly affect the cash-ﬂow characteristics and costs of, and an institution’s demand for, assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet (OBS) positions. In turn, these factors signiﬁcantly affect an institution’s funding structure or liquid- ity needs, as well as the relative attractiveness or price of alternative sources of liquidity available to it. Changes in the level of market interest rates can also result in the acceleration or deceleration of loan prepayments and deposit ﬂows. The availability of different types of funds may also be affected, as a result of options embedded in the contractual structure of assets, liabilities, and ﬁnancial transactions. Economic Conditions Cyclical and seasonal economic conditions can also have an impact on the volume of an institution’s assets, liabilities, and OBS positions—and, accordingly, its cash-ﬂow and liquidity proﬁle. For example, during reces- sions, business demand for credit may decline, which affects the growth of an organization and its liquidity needs. At the same time, subpar economic growth and its impact on employ- 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2016 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 ment, bankruptcies, and business failures often create direct and indirect incentives for retail customers to reduce their deposits; a recession may also lead to higher loan delinquencies for ﬁnancial institutions. All of these conditions have negative implications for an institution’s cash ﬂow and overall liquidity. On the other hand, periods of economic growth may spur asset or deposit growth, thus introducing differ- ent liquidity challenges. Credit-Risk Exposures of an Institution An institution’s exposure to credit risk can have a material impact on its liquidity. Nonperform- ing loans directly reduce otherwise expected cash inﬂows. The reduced credit quality of problem assets impairs their marketability and potential use as a source of liquidity (either by selling the assets or using them as collateral). Moreover, problem assets have a negative impact on overall cash ﬂows by increasing the costs of loan-collection and -workout efforts. In addition, the price that a bank pays for funds, especially wholesale and brokered bor- rowed funds and deposits, will reﬂect the insti- tution’s perceived level of risk exposure in the marketplace. Fund suppliers use a variety of credit-quality indicators to judge credit risk and determine the returns they require for the risk to be undertaken. Such indicators include an insti- tution’s loan-growth rates; the relative size of its loan portfolio; and the levels of delinquent loans, nonperforming loans, and loan losses. For institutions that have issued public debt, the credit ratings of nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSOs) are particularly critical. Other Risk Exposures of an Institution Importantly, exposures to operational, legal, reputational, and other risks can lead to adverse liquidity conditions. Operating risks can mate- rially disrupt the dispersal and receipt of obli- gated cash ﬂows and give rise to signiﬁcant liquidity needs. Exposure to legal and reputa- tional risks can lead fund providers to question an institution’s overall credit risk, safety and soundness, and ability to meet its obligations in the future. A bank’s reputation for operating in a safe and sound manner, particularly its ability to meet its contractual obligations, is an impor- tant determinant in its costs of funds and overall liquidity-risk proﬁle. Given the critical importance of liquidity to ﬁnancial institutions and the potential impact that other risk exposures and external factors have on liquidity, effective liquidity managers ensure that liquidity management is fully inte- grated into the institution’s overall enterprise- wide risk-management activities. Liquidity man- agement is therefore an important part of an institution’s strategic and tactical planning. Types of Liquidity Risk Banking organizations encounter the following three broad types of liquidity risk: • mismatch risk • market liquidity risk • contingent liquidity risk Mismatch risk is the risk that an institution will not have sufﬁcient cash to meet obligations in the normal course of business, as a result of ineffective matches between cash inﬂows and outﬂows. The management and control of fund- ing mismatches depend greatly on the daily projections of operational cash ﬂow, including those cash ﬂows that may arise from seasonal business ﬂuctuations, unanticipated new busi- ness, and other everyday situations. To accu- rately project operational cash ﬂows, an institu- tion needs to estimate its expected cash-ﬂow needs and ensure it has adequate liquidity to meet small variations to those expectations. Occurrences of funding mismatches may be frequent. If adequately managed, these mis- matches may have little to no impact on the ﬁnancial health of the ﬁrm. Market liquidity risk is the risk that an insti- tution will encounter market constraints in its efforts to convert assets into cash or to access ﬁnancial market sources of funds. The planned conversion of assets into cash is an important element in an institution’s ongoing management of funding cash-ﬂow mismatches. In addition, converting assets into cash is often a key strategic tool for addressing contingent liquidity events. As a result, market constraints on achieving planned, strategic, or contingent conversions of assets into cash can exacerbate the severity of potential funding mismatches and contingent liquidity problems. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 3 Contingent liquidity risk is the risk that arises when unexpected events cause an institution to have insufﬁcient funds to meet its obligations. Unexpected events may be ﬁrm-speciﬁc or arise from external factors. External factors may be geographic, such as local economic factors that affect the premiums required on deposits with certain local, state, or commercial areas, or they may be market-oriented, such as increases in the price volatility of certain types of securities in response to ﬁnancial market developments. External factors may also be systemic, such as a payment-system disruption or major changes in economic or ﬁnancial market conditions. The nature and severity of contingent liquid- ity events vary substantially. At one extreme, contingent liquidity risk may arise from the need to fund unexpected asset growth as a result of commitment requests or the unexpected runoff of liabilities that occurs in the normal course of business. At the other extreme, institution- speciﬁc issues, such as the lowering of a public debt rating or general ﬁnancial market stress, may have a signiﬁcant impact on an institution’s liquidity and safety and soundness. As a result, managing contingent liquidity risk requires an ongoing assessment of potential future events and circumstances in order to ensure that obli- gations are met and adequate sources of standby liquidity and/or liquidity reserves are readily available and easily converted to cash. Diversiﬁcation plays an important role in managing liquidity and its various component risks. Concentrations in particular types of assets, liabilities, OBS positions, or business activities that give rise to unique types of funding needs or create an undue reliance on speciﬁc types of funding sources can unduly expose an institu- tion to the risks of funding mismatches, contin- gent events, and market liquidity constraints. Therefore, diversiﬁcation of both the sources and uses of liquidity is a critical component of sound liquidity-risk management. SOUND LIQUIDITY-RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES Like the management of any type of risk, sound liquidity-risk management involves effective oversight of a comprehensive process that adequately identiﬁes, measures, monitors, and controls risk exposure. This process includes oversight of exposures to funding mismatches, market liquidity constraints, and contingent liquidity events. Both international and U.S. banking supervisors have issued supervisory guidance on safe and sound practices for man- aging the liquidity risk of banking organiza- tions. Guidance on liquidity risk management was published by the Basel Committee on Bank- ing Supervision, Bank for International Settle- ments, ‘‘Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision,’’ in September 2008. 1 The U.S. regulatory agencies imple- mented these principles, jointly agreeing to incorporate those principles into their existing guidance. The revised guidance, ‘‘Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management’’ was issued on March 10, 2010 (see SR-10-6 and its attachment). In summary, the critical elements of a sound liquidity-risk management process are— • Effective corporate governance consisting of oversight by the board of directors and active involvement by management in an institu- tion’s control of liquidity risk. • Appropriate strategies, policies, procedures, and limits used to manage and mitigate liquid- ity risk. • Comprehensive liquidity-risk measurement and monitoring systems (including assess- ments of the current and prospective cash ﬂows or sources and uses of funds) that are commensurate with the complexity and busi- ness activities of the institution. • Active management of intraday liquidity and collateral. • An appropriately diverse mix of existing and potential future funding sources. • Adequate levels of highly liquid marketable securities free of legal, regulatory, or opera- tional impediments that can be used to meet liquidity needs in stressful situations. • Comprehensive contingency funding plans (CFPs) that sufﬁciently address potential adverse liquidity events and emergency cash ﬂow requirements. • Internal controls and internal audit processes sufﬁcient to determine the adequacy of the institution’s liquidity-risk-management process. 1. Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, ‘‘Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision,’’ September 2008. See www.bis.org/publ/bcbs144.htm. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 Each of these elements should be customized to account for the sophistication, complexity, and business activities of an institution. The follow- ing sections discuss supervisory expectations for each of these critical elements. Corporate Governance and Oversight Effective liquidity-risk management requires the coordinated efforts of both an informed board of directors and capable senior management. The board should establish and communicate the institution’s liquidity-risk tolerance in such a manner that all levels of management clearly understand the institution’s approach to manag- ing the trade-offs between management of liquid- ity risk and short-term proﬁts. The board should ensure that the organizational structures and stafﬁng levels are appropriate, given the institu- tion’s activities and the risks they present. Involvement of the Board of Directors The board of directors is ultimately responsible for the liquidity risk assumed by the institution. The board should understand and guide the strategic direction of liquidity-risk management. Speciﬁcally, the board of directors or a del- egated committee of board members should oversee the establishment and approval of liquid- ity management strategies, policies and proce- dures, and review them at least annually. In addition, the board should ensure that it • understands the nature of the institution’s liquidity risks and periodically reviews infor- mation necessary to maintain this understanding; • understands and approves those elements of liquidity-risk management policies that articu- late the institution’s general strategy for man- aging liquidity risk, and establishes acceptable risk tolerances; • establishes executive-level lines of authority and responsibility for managing the institu- tion’s liquidity risk; • enforces management’s duties to identify, mea- sure, monitor, and control liquidity risk. • understands and periodically reviews the insti- tution’s CFP for handling potential adverse liquidity events; and • understands the liquidity-risk proﬁle of impor- tant subsidiaries and afﬁliates and their inﬂu- ence on the overall liquidity of the ﬁnancial institution, as appropriate. Role of Senior Management Senior management should ensure that liquidity- risk management strategies, policies, and proce- dures are adequate for the sophistication and complexity of the institution. Management should ensure that these policies and procedures are appropriately executed on both a long-term and day-to-day basis, in accordance with board delegations. Management should oversee the development and implementation of— • an appropriate risk-measurement system and standards for measuring the institution’s liquidity risk; • a comprehensive liquidity-risk reporting and monitoring process; • establishment and monitoring of liquid asset buffers of unencumbered marketable securi- ties; • effective internal controls and review pro- cesses for the management of liquidity risk; and • monitoring of liquidity risks for each entity across the institution on an on-going basis and; • an appropriate CFP , including (1) adequate assessments of the institution’s contingent liquidity risks under adverse circumstances and (2) fully developed strategies and plans for managing such events. Senior management should periodically review the organization’s liquidity-risk management strategies, policies, and procedures, as well as its CFP , to ensure that they remain appropriate and sound. Management should also coordinate the institution’s liquidity-risk management with its efforts for disaster, contingency, and strategic planning, as well as with its business and risk-management objectives, strategies, and tactics. Senior management is also responsible for regularly reporting to the board of directors on the liquidity-risk proﬁle of the institution. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 5 Strategies, Policies, Procedures, and Risk Tolerances Institutions should have documented strategies for managing liquidity and have formal written policies and procedures for limiting and control- ling risk exposures. Strategies, policies, and procedures should translate the board’s goals, objectives, and risk tolerances into operating standards that are well understood by institu- tional personnel and that are consistent with the board’s intended risk tolerances. Policies should also ensure that responsibility for managing liquidity is assigned throughout the corporate structure of the institution, including separate legal entities and relevant operating subsidiaries and afﬁliates, where appropriate. Strategies set out the institution’s general approach for man- aging liquidity, articulate its liquidity-risk toler- ances, and address the extent to which key elements of funds management are centralized or delegated throughout the institution. Strate- gies also communicate how much emphasis the institution places on using asset liquidity, liabili- ties, and operating cash ﬂows to meet its day- to-day and contingent funding needs. Quantita- tive and qualitative targets, such as the following, may also be included in policies: • guidelines or limits on the composition of assets and liabilities • the relative reliance on certain funding sources, both on an ongoing basis and under contingent liquidity scenarios • the marketability of assets to be used as contingent sources of liquidity An institution’s strategies and policies should identify the primary objectives and methods for (1) managing daily operating cash ﬂows, (2) pro- viding for seasonal and cyclical cash-ﬂow ﬂuc- tuations, and (3) addressing various adverse liquidity scenarios. The latter includes formulat- ing plans and courses of actions for dealing with potential temporary, intermediate-term, and long- term liquidity disruptions. Policies and proce- dures should formally document— • lines of authority and responsibility for man- aging liquidity risk, • liquidity-risk limits and guidelines, • the institution’s measurement and reporting systems, and • elements of the institution’s comprehensive CFP . Incorporating these elements of liquidity-risk management into policies and procedures helps internal control and internal audit fulﬁll their oversight role in the liquidity-risk management process. Policies, procedures, and limits should address liquidity separately for individual cur- rencies, where appropriate and material. All liquidity-risk policies, procedures, and limits should be reviewed periodically and revised as needed. Delineating Clear Lines of Authority and Responsibility Through formal written policies or clear operat- ing procedures, management should delineate managerial responsibilities and oversight, includ- ing lines of authority and responsibility for the following: • developing liquidity-risk management poli- cies, procedures, and limits • developing and implementing strategies and tactics for managing liquidity risk • conducting day-to-day management of the institution’s liquidity • establishing and maintaining liquidity-risk measurement and monitoring systems • authorizing exceptions to policies and limits • identifying the potential liquidity risk associ- ated with the introduction of new products and activities Institutions should clearly identify the individu- als or committees responsible for liquidity-risk decisions. Less complex institutions often assign such responsibilities to the CFO or an equivalent senior management ofﬁcial. Other institutions assign responsibility for liquidity-risk manage- ment to a committee of senior managers, some- times called a ﬁnance committee or an asset/ liability committee (ALCO). Policies should clearly identify individual or committee duties and responsibilities, the extent of the decision- making authority, and the form and frequency of periodic reports to senior management and the board of directors. In general, an ALCO (or a similar senior-level committee) is responsible for ensuring that (1) measurement systems adequately identify and quantify the institution’s liquidity-risk exposure and (2) reporting sys- 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 6 tems communicate accurate and relevant infor- mation about the level and sources of that exposure. When an institution uses an ALCO or other senior management committee, the committee should actively monitor the liquidity proﬁle of the institution and should have sufﬁciently broad representation from the major institutional func- tions that inﬂuence liquidity risk (e.g., the lend- ing, investment, deposit, or funding functions). Committee members should include senior man- agers who have authority over the units respon- sible for executing transactions and other activi- ties that can affect liquidity. In addition, the committee should ensure that (1) the risk- measurement system adequately identiﬁes and quantiﬁes risk exposure and (2) the reporting process communicates accurate, timely, and rel- evant information about the level and sources of risk exposure. In general, committees overseeing liquidity- risk management delegate the day-to-day respon- sibilities to the institution’s treasury department or, at less complex institutions, to the CFO, treasurer, or other appropriate staff. The person- nel charged with measuring and monitoring the day-to-day management of liquidity risk should have a well-founded understanding of all aspects of the institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle. While the day-to-day management of liquidity may be delegated, the oversight committee should not be precluded from aggressively monitoring liquidity management. In more-complex institutions that have sepa- rate legal entities and operating subsidiaries or afﬁliates, effective liquidity-risk management requires senior managers and other key personnel to have an understanding of the funding position and liquidity of any member of the corporate group that might provide or absorb liquid resources from another member. Centralized liquidity-risk assessment and management can provide signiﬁcant operating efﬁciencies and comprehensive views of the liquidity-risk proﬁle of the integrated corporate entity as well as members of the corporate group—including depository institutions. This integrated view is particularly important for understanding the impact other members of the group may have on insured depository entities. However, legal and regulatory restrictions on the ﬂow of funds among members of a corporate group, in addition to differences in the liquidity characteristics and dynamics of managing the liquidity of different types of entities within a group, may call for decentralizing various elements of liquidity-risk management. Such delegation and associated strategies, policies, and procedures should be clearly articulated and understood throughout the organization. Policies, procedures, and limits should also address liquidity separately for individual currencies, legal entities, and business lines, when appropriate and material, as well as allow for legal, regulatory, and operational limits for the transferability of liquidity. Diversiﬁed Funding An institution should establish a funding strat- egy that provides effective diversiﬁcation in the sources and tenor of funding. It should maintain an ongoing presence in its chosen funding mar- kets and strong relationships with funds provid- ers to promote effective diversiﬁcation of fund- ing sources. An institution should regularly gauge its capacity to raise funds quickly from each source. It should identify the main factors that affect its ability to raise funds and monitor those factors closely to ensure that estimates of fund raising capacity remain valid. An institution should diversify available fund- ing sources in the short-, medium- and long- term. Diversiﬁcation targets should be part of the medium- to long-term funding plans and should be aligned with the budgeting and busi- ness planning process. Funding plans should take into account correlations between sources of funds and market conditions. Funding should also be diversiﬁed across a full range of retail as well as secured and unsecured wholesale sources of funds, consistent with the institution’s sophis- tication and complexity. Management should also consider the funding implications of any government programs or guarantees it utilizes. As with wholesale funding, the potential unavail- ability of government programs over the intermediate- and long-term should be fully considered in the development of liquidity risk management strategies, tactics, and risk toler- ances. Funding diversiﬁcation should be imple- mented using limits addressing counterparties, secured versus unsecured market funding, instru- ment type, securitization vehicle, and geo- graphic market. In general, funding concentra- tions should be avoided. Undue over reliance on any one source of funding is considered an unsafe and unsound practice. An essential component of ensuring funding diversity is maintaining market access. Market Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 7 access is critical for effective liquidity risk management, as it affects both the ability to raise new funds and to liquidate assets. Senior management should ensure that market access is being actively managed, monitored, and tested by the appropriate staff. Such efforts should be consistent with the institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle and sources of funding. For example, access to the capital markets is an important consideration for most large complex institu- tions, whereas the availability of correspondent lines of credit and other sources of whole funds are critical for smaller, less complex institutions. An institution needs to identify alternative sources of funding that strengthen its capacity to withstand a variety of severe institution-speciﬁc and market-wide liquidity shocks. Depending upon the nature, severity, and duration of the liquidity shock, potential sources of funding include, but are not limited to, the following: • Deposit growth. • Lengthening maturities of liabilities. • Issuance of debt instruments. • Sale of subsidiaries or lines of business. • Asset securitization. • Sale (either outright or through repurchase agreements) or pledging of liquid assets. • Drawing-down committed facilities. • Borrowing. Liquidity-Risk Limits and Guidelines Liquidity-risk tolerances or limits should be appropriate for the complexity and liquidity-risk proﬁle of an institution. They should employ both quantitative targets and qualitative guide- lines and should be consistent with the institu- tion’s overall approach and strategy for measur- ing and managing liquidity. Policies should clearly articulate a liquidity-risk tolerance that is appropriate for the business strategy of the institution, considering its complexity, business mix, liquidity-risk proﬁle, and its role in the ﬁnancial system. Policies should also contain provisions for documenting and periodically reviewing assumptions used in liquidity projec- tions. Policy guidelines should employ both quantitative targets and qualitative guidelines. These measurements, limits, and guidelines may be speciﬁed in terms of the following measures and conditions, as applicable: • Discrete or cumulative cash-ﬂow mismatches or gaps (sources and uses of funds) over speciﬁed future short- and long-term time horizons under both expected and adverse business conditions. Often, these are expressed as cash-ﬂow coverage ratios or as speciﬁc aggregate amounts. • Target amounts of unpledged liquid-asset reserves sufﬁcient to meet liquidity needs under normal and reasonably anticipated adverse business conditions. These targets are often expressed as aggregate amounts or as ratios calculated in relation to, for example, total assets, short-term assets, various types of liabilities, or projected-scenario liquidity needs. • V olatile liability dependence and liquid-asset coverage of volatile liabilities under both normal and stress conditions. These guide- lines, for example, may include amounts of potentially volatile wholesale funding to total liabilities, volatile retail (e.g., high-cost or out-of-market) deposits to total deposits, poten- tially volatile deposit-dependency measures, or short-term borrowings as a percent of total funding. • Asset concentrations that could increase liquidity risk through a limited ability to convert to cash (e.g., complex ﬁnancial instru- ments, bank-owned (corporate-owned) life insurance, and less-marketable loan port- folios). • Funding concentrations that address diversi- ﬁcation issues, such as a large liability and dependency on borrowed funds, concentra- tions of single funds providers, funds provid- ers by market segments, and types of volatile deposit or volatile wholesale funding depen- dency. For small community banks, funding concentrations may be difﬁcult to avoid. How- ever, banks that rely on just a few primary sources should have appropriate systems in place to manage the concentrations of funding liquidity, including limit structures and report- ing mechanisms. • Funding concentrations that address the term, re-pricing, and market characteristics of fund- ing sources. This may include diversiﬁcation targets for short-, medium-, and long-term funding, instrument type and securitization vehicles, and guidance on concentrations for currencies and geographical markets. • Contingent liabilities, such as unfunded loan commitments and lines of credit supporting asset sales or securitizations, and collateral 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 8 requirements for derivatives transactions and various types of secured lending. • The minimum and maximum average maturity of different categories of assets and liabilities. Institutions may use other risk indicators to specify their risk tolerances. Some institutions may use ratios such as loans to deposits, loans to equity capital, purchased funds to total assets, or other common measures. However, when developing and using such measures, institu- tions should be fully aware that some measures may not appropriately assess the timing and scenario-speciﬁc characteristics of the institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle. Liquidity-risk measures that are constructed using static balance-sheet amounts may hide signiﬁcant liquidity risk that can occur in the future under both normal and adverse business conditions. As a result, institutions should not rely solely on these static measures to monitor and manage liquidity. Policies on Measuring and Managing Reporting Systems Policies and procedures should also identify the methods used to measure liquidity risk, as well as the form and frequency of reports to various levels of management and the board of directors. Policies should identify the nature and form of cash-ﬂow projections and other liquidity mea- sures to be used. Policies should provide for the categorization, measurement, and monitoring of both stable and potentially volatile sources of funds. Policies should also provide guidance on the types of business-condition scenarios used to construct cash-ﬂow projections and should con- tain provisions for documenting and periodi- cally reviewing the assumptions used in liquid- ity projections. Moreover, policies should explicitly provide for more-frequent reporting under adverse busi- ness or liquidity conditions. Under normal busi- ness conditions, senior managers should receive liquidity-risk reports at least monthly, while the board of directors should receive liquidity-risk reports at least quarterly. If the risk exposure is more complex, the reports should be more frequent. These reports should tell senior man- agement and the board how much liquidity risk the bank is assuming, whether management is complying with risk limits, and whether man- agement’s strategies are consistent with the board’s expressed risk tolerance. Policies on Contingency Funding Plans Policies should also provide for senior manage- ment to develop and maintain a written, com- prehensive, and up-to-date liquidity CFP . Poli- cies should also ensure that, as part of ongoing liquidity-risk management, senior management is alerted to early-warning indicators or triggers of potential liquidity problems. Compliance with Laws and Regulations Institutions should ensure that their policies and procedures take into account compliance with appropriate laws and regulations that can have an impact on an institution’s liquidity-risk man- agement and liquidity-risk proﬁle. These laws and regulations include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA) and its constraints on an institution’s use of brokered deposits, as well as pertinent sections of Federal Reserve regulations A, D, F, and W. (See appendix 2, for a summary of some of the pertinent legal and regulatory issues that should be factored into the management of liquidity risk.) Liquidity-Risk Measurement Systems The analysis and measurement of liquidity risk should be tailored to the complexity and risk proﬁle of an institution, incorporating the cash ﬂows and liquidity implications of all the insti- tution’s material assets, liabilities, off-balance- sheet positions, and major business activities. Liquidity-risk analysis should consider what effect options embedded in the institution’s sources and uses of funds may have on its cash ﬂows and liquidity-risk measures. The analysis of liquidity risk should also be forward-looking and strive to identify potential future funding mismatches as well as current imbalances. Liquidity-risk measures should advance manage- ment’s understanding of the institution’s expo- sure to mismatch, market, and contingent liquid- ity risks. Measures should also assess the institution’s liquidity sources and needs in rela- tion to the speciﬁc business environments it Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 9 operates in and the time frames involved in securing and using funds. Adequate liquidity-risk measurement requires the ongoing review of an institution’s sources and uses of funds and generally includes analy- sis of the following: • trends in balance-sheet structure and funding vehicles • pro forma cash-ﬂow statements and funding mismatch gaps over varying time horizons • trends and expectations in the volume and pricing trends for assets, liabilities, and off- balance-sheet items that can have a signiﬁcant impact on the institution’s liquidity • trends in the relative costs of funds required by existing and alternative funds providers • the diversiﬁcation of funding sources and trends in funding concentrations • the adequacy of asset liquidity reserves, trends in these reserves, and the market dynamics that could inﬂuence their market liquidity • the sensitivity of funds providers to both ﬁnancial market and institution-speciﬁc trends and events • the institution’s exposure to both broad-based market and institution-speciﬁc contingent liquidity events The formality and sophistication of liquidity- risk measurement, and the policies and proce- dures used to govern the measurement process, depend on the sophistication of the institution, the nature and complexity of its funding struc- tures and activities, and its overall liquidity-risk proﬁle. (See appendix 1, for background information on the types of liquidity analysis and measures of liquidity risk used by effective liquidity-risk managers. The appendix also discusses the con- siderations for evaluating the liquidity-risk char- acteristics of various assets, liabilities, OBS positions, and other activities, such as asset securitization, that can inﬂuence an institution’s liquidity.) Pro Forma Cash-Flow Analysis Regardless of the size and complexity of an institution, pro forma cash-ﬂow statements are a critical tool for adequately managing liquidity risk. In the normal course of measuring and managing liquidity risk and analyzing their institution’s sources and uses of funds, effective liquidity managers project cash ﬂows under expected and alternative liquidity scenarios. Such cash-ﬂow-projection statements range from simple spreadsheets to very detailed reports, depending on the complexity and sophistication of the institution and its liquidity-risk proﬁle. A sound practice is to project, on an ongoing basis, an institution’s cash ﬂows under normal business-as-usual conditions, incorporating appropriate seasonal and business-growth con- siderations over varying time horizons. This cash-ﬂow projection should be regularly reviewed under both short-term and intermediate- to long- term institution-speciﬁc contingent scenarios. Institutions that have more-complex liquidity- risk proﬁles should also assess their exposure to broad systemic and adverse ﬁnancial market events, as appropriate to their business mix and overall liquidity-risk proﬁle (e.g., securitization, derivatives, trading, processing, international, and other activities). The construction of pro forma cash-ﬂow state- ments under alternative scenarios and the ongo- ing monitoring of an institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle depend importantly on liquidity manage- ment’s review of trends in the institution’s balance-sheet structure and its funding sources. This review should consider past experience and include expectations for the volume and pricing of assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet items that may signiﬁcantly affect the institution’s liquidity. Effective liquidity-risk monitoring systems should assess (1) trends in the relative cost of funds, as required by the institution’s existing and alternative funds providers; (2) the diversiﬁcation or concentration of funding sources; (3) the adequacy of the institution’s asset liquidity reserves; and (4) the sensitivity of funds providers to both ﬁnancial market and institution-speciﬁc trends and events. Detailed examples and further discussion of cash-ﬂows are included in appendix 1, section I, ‘‘Basic Cash-Flow Projections.’’ Assumptions Given the critical importance of assumptions in constructing liquidity-risk measures and projec- tions of future cash ﬂows, institutions should ensure that all their assumptions are reasonable and appropriate. Institutions should document and periodically review and approve key assump- tions. Assumptions used in assessing the liquid- 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 10 ity risk of complex instruments and assets; liabilities; and OBS positions that have uncer- tain cash ﬂows, market value, or maturities should be subject to rigorous documentation and review. Assumptions about the stability or volatility of retail deposits, brokered deposits, wholesale or secondary-market borrowings, and other fund- ing sources with uncertain cash ﬂows are par- ticularly important—especially when such as- sumptions are used to evaluate alternative sources of funds under adverse contingent liquid- ity scenarios (such as a deterioration in asset quality or capital). When assumptions about the performance of deposits and other sources of funds are used in the computation of liquidity measures, these assumptions should be based on reasoned analysis considering such factors as the following: • the historical behavior of deposit customers and funds providers • how current or future business conditions may change the historical responses and behaviors of customers and other funds providers • the general conditions and characteristics of the institution’s market for various types of funds, including the degree of competition • the anticipated pricing behavior of funds pro- viders (for instance, wholesale or retail) under the scenario investigated • haircuts (that is, the reduction from the stated value of an asset) applied to assets earmarked as contingent liquidity reserves Further discussion of liquidity characteristics of assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet items is included in appendix 1, section III, ‘‘Liquidity Characteristics of Assets, Liabilities, Off- Balance-Sheet Positions, and V arious Types of Banking Activities.’’ Institutions that have com- plex liquidity proﬁles should perform sensitivity tests to determine what effect any changes to its material assumptions will have on its liquidity. Institutions should ensure that assets are prop- erly valued according to relevant ﬁnancial report- ing and supervisory standards. An institution should fully factor into its risk management the consideration that valuations may deteriorate under market stress and take this into account in assessing the feasibility and impact of asset sales on its liquidity position during stress events. Institutions should ensure that their vulner- abilities to changing liquidity needs and liquid- ity capacities are appropriately assessed within meaningful time horizons, including intraday, day-to-day, short-term weekly and monthly hori- zons, medium-term horizons of up to one year, and longer-term liquidity needs over one year. These assessments should include vulnerabili- ties to events, activities, and strategies that can signiﬁcantly strain the capability to generate internal cash. Stress Testing Once normal operating cash-ﬂow statements are established then those tools can be used to generate stress tests. Stress assumptions are simply layered on top of the normal operating cash-ﬂow projections. The quantitative results provided by the stress test also serve as a key component within the CFP . Institutions should conduct stress tests on a regular basis for a variety of institution-speciﬁc and market-wide events across multiple time horizons. The magnitude and frequency of stress testing should be commensurate with the com- plexity of the ﬁnancial institution and the level of its risk exposures. Stress test outcomes should be used to identify and quantify sources of potential liquidity strain and to analyze possible impacts on the institution’s cash ﬂows, liquidity position, proﬁtability, and solvency. Stress tests should also be used to ensure that current exposures are consistent with the ﬁnan- cial institution’s established liquidity-risk toler- ance. The stress test serves as a key component of the CFP and the quantiﬁcation of the risk to which the institution may be exposed. Manage- ment’s active involvement and support is critical to the effectiveness of the stress-testing process. Management should discuss the results of stress tests and take remedial or mitigating actions to limit the institution’s exposures, build up a liquidity cushion, and adjust its liquidity proﬁle to ﬁt its risk tolerance. The results of stress tests therefore play a key role in determining the amount of buffer assets the institution should maintain. Cushion of Liquid Assets Liquid assets are an important source of both primary (operating liquidity) and secondary (con- tingent liquidity) funding at many institutions. Indeed, a critical component of an institution’s ability to effectively respond to potential liquid- Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 11 ity stress is the availability of a cushion of highly liquid assets without legal, regulatory, or operational impediments (i.e., unencumbered) that can be sold or pledged to obtain funds in a range of stress scenarios. These assets should be held as insurance against a range of liquidity stress scenarios, including those that involve the loss or impairment of typically available unse- cured and/or secured funding sources. The size of the cushion of such high-quality liquid assets should be supported by estimates of liquidity needs performed under an institution’s stress testing as well as aligned with the risk tolerance and risk proﬁle of the institution. Management estimates of liquidity needs during periods of stress should incorporate both contractual and non-contractual cash ﬂows, including the possi- bility of funds being withdrawn. Such estimates should also assume the inability to obtain unse- cured funding as well as the loss or impairment of access to funds secured by assets other than the safest, most liquid assets. Management should ensure that unencum- bered, highly liquid assets are readily available and are not pledged to payment systems or clearing houses. The quality of unencumbered liquid assets is important as it will ensure accessibility during the time of most need. For example, an institution could utilize its holdings of high-quality U.S. Treasury securities, or simi- lar instruments, and enter into repurchase agree- ments in response to the most severe stress scenarios. Liquidity-Risk Monitoring and Reporting Systems Methods used to monitor and measure liquid- ity risk should be sufﬁciently robust and ﬂex- ible to allow for the timely computation of the metrics an institution uses in its ongoing liquidity-risk management. Risk monitoring and reporting systems should regularly provide information on day-to-day liquidity manage- ment and risk control; this information should also be readily available during contingent liquidity events. In keeping with the other elements of sound liquidity-risk management, the complexity and sophistication of management reporting and management information systems (MIS) should be consistent with the liquidity proﬁle of the institution. For example, complex institutions that are highly dependent on wholesale funds may need daily reports on the use of various funding sources, maturities of various instru- ments, and rollover rates. Less complex institu- tions may require only simple maturity-gap or cash-ﬂow reports that depict rollovers and mis- match risks; these reports may also include pertinent liquidity ratios. Liquidity-risk reports can be customized to provide management with aggregate information that includes sufﬁcient supporting detail to enable them to assess the sensitivity of the institution to changes in market conditions, its own ﬁnancial performance, and other important risk factors. Reportable items may include, but are not limited to— • cash-ﬂow gap-projection reports and forward- looking summary measures that assess both business-as-usual and contingent liquidity scenarios; • asset and funding concentrations that high- light the institution’s dependence on funds that may be highly sensitive to institution- speciﬁc contingent liquidity or market liquid- ity risk (including information on the types and amounts of negotiable certiﬁcates of deposit (CDs) and other bank obligations, as well as information on major liquidity funds providers); • critical assumptions used in cash-ﬂow projec- tions and other measures; • the status of key early-warning signals or risk indicators; • funding availability; • reports on the impact of new products and activities; • reports documenting compliance with estab- lished policies and procedures; and • where appropriate, both consolidated and unconsolidated reports for institutions that have multiple ofﬁces, international branches, afﬁliates, or subsidiaries. • Institutions should also report on the use of and availability of government support, such as lending and guarantee programs, and impli- cations on liquidity positions, particularly since these programs are generally temporary or reserved as a source for contingent funding. The types of reports or information and their timing should be tailored to the institution’s funding strategies and will vary according to the complexity of the institution’s operations and risk proﬁle. For example, institutions relying on investment securities for their primary source of 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 12 contingent liquidity should employ reports on the quality, pledging status, and maturity distribution of those assets. Similarly, institu- tions conducting securitization activities, or placing signiﬁcant emphasis on the sale of loans to meet contingent liquidity needs, should customize their liquidity reports to target these activities. Collateral-Position Management An institution should have the ability to calcu- late all of its collateral positions in a timely manner, including assets currently pledged rela- tive to the amount of security required and unencumbered assets available to be pledged. An institution’s level of available collateral should be monitored by legal entity, by jurisdic- tion, and by currency exposure. Systems should be capable of monitoring shifts between intra- day and overnight or term-collateral usage. An institution should be aware of the operational and timing requirements associated with access- ing the collateral given its physical location (i.e., the custodian institution or securities settlement system with which the collateral is held). Insti- tutions should also fully understand the potential demand on required and available collateral arising from various types of contractual contin- gencies during periods of both market-wide and institution-speciﬁc stress. Liquidity Across Legal Entities, and Business Lines An institution should actively monitor and con- trol liquidity-risk exposures and funding needs within and across legal entities and business lines, taking into account legal, regulatory, and operational limitations to the transferability of liquidity. Separately regulated entities will need to maintain liquidity commensurate with their own risk proﬁles on a stand-alone basis. Regardless of its organizational structure, it is important that an institution actively monitor and control liquidity risks at the level of indi- vidual legal entities, and the group as a whole, incorporating processes that aggregate data across multiple systems in order to develop a group-wide view of liquidity-risk exposures and identify constraints on the transfer of liquidity within the group. Assumptions regarding the transferability of funds and collateral should be described in liquidity-risk management plans. Intraday Liquidity Position Management Intraday liquidity monitoring is an important component of the liquidity-risk management process for institutions engaged in signiﬁcant payment, settlement, and clearing activities. An institution’s failure to manage intraday liquidity effectively, under normal and stressed condi- tions, could leave it unable to meet payment and settlement obligations in a timely manner, adversely affecting its own liquidity position and that of its counterparties. Among large, complex organizations, the interdependencies that exist among payment systems and the inability to meet certain critical payments has the potential to lead to systemic disruptions that can prevent the smooth functioning of all pay- ment systems and money markets. Therefore, institutions with material payment, settlement and clearing activities should actively manage their intraday liquidity positions and risks to meet payment and settlement obligations on a timely basis under both normal and stressed conditions. Senior management should develop and adopt an intraday liquidity strategy that allows the institution to • monitor and measure expected daily gross liquidity inﬂows and outﬂows. • manage and mobilize collateral when neces- sary to obtain intraday credit. • identify and prioritize time-speciﬁc and other critical obligations in order to meet them when expected. • settle other less critical obligations as soon as possible. • control credit to customers when necessary. Contingency Funding Plans A CFP is a compilation of policies, procedures, and action plans for responding to contingent liquidity events. It is a sound practice for all institutions, regardless of size and complexity, to engage in comprehensive contingent liquidity planning. The objectives of the CFP are to provide a plan for responding to a liquidity crisis, identify a menu of contingent liquidity Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 13 sources that the institution can use under adverse liquidity circumstances, and describe steps that should be taken to ensure that the institution’s sources of liquidity are sufﬁcient to fund sched- uled operating requirements and meet the insti- tution’s commitments with minimal costs and disruption. CFPs should be commensurate with an institution’s complexity, risk proﬁle, and scope of operations. Contingent liquidity events are unexpected situations or business conditions that may increase the risk that an institution will not have sufﬁcient funds to meet liquidity needs. These events can negatively affect any institution, regardless of its size and complexity, by • interfering with or preventing the funding of asset growth, • disrupting the institution’s ability to renew or replace maturing funds. Contingent liquidity events may be institution- speciﬁc or arise from external factors. Institution- speciﬁc risks are determined by the risk proﬁle and business activities of the institution. They generally are a result of unique credit, market, operational, and strategic risks taken by the institution. A potential result of this type of event would be customers unexpectedly exercis- ing options to withdraw deposits or exercise off-balance-sheet (OBS) commitments. In contrast, external contingent events may be systemic ﬁnancial-market occurrences, such as • increases or decreases in the price volatility of certain types of securities in response to market events; • major changes in economic conditions, mar- ket perception, or dislocations in ﬁnancial markets; • disturbances in payment and settlement sys- tems due to operational or local disasters. Contingent liquidity events range from high- probability/low-impact events that occur during the normal course of business to low-probability/ high-impact events that may have an adverse impact on an institution’s safety and soundness. Institutions should incorporate planning for high- probability/low-impact liquidity risks into their daily management of the sources and uses of their funds. This objective is best accomplished by assessing possible variations in expected cash-ﬂow projections and provisioning for adequate liquidity reserves in the normal course of business. Liquidity risks driven by lower-probability, higher-impact events should be addressed in the CFP , which should— • identify reasonably plausible stress events; • evaluate those stress events under different levels of severity; • make a quantitative assessment of funding needs under the stress events; • identify potential funding sources in response to a stress event; and • provide for commensurate management pro- cesses, reporting, and external communication throughout a stress event. The CFP should address both the severity and duration of contingent liquidity events. The liquidity pressures resulting from low-probability, high-impact events may be immediate and short term, or they may present sustained situations that have long-term liquidity implications. The potential length of an event should factor into decisions about sources of contingent liquidity. Identifying Liquidity Stress Events Stress events are those events that may have a signiﬁcant impact on an institution’s liquidity, given its speciﬁc balance-sheet structure, busi- ness lines, organizational structure, and other characteristics. Possible stress events include changes in credit ratings, a deterioration in asset quality, a prompt-corrective-action (PCA) down- grade, and CAMELS ratings downgrade widen- ing of credit default spreads, operating losses, negative press coverage, or other events that call into question an institution’s ability to meet its obligations. An institution should customize its CFP . Sepa- rate CFPs may be required for the parent com- pany and the consolidated banks in a multibank holding company, for separate subsidiaries (when appropriate), or for each signiﬁcant foreign currency and global political entity, as neces- sary. These separate CFPs may be necessary because of legal requirements and restrictions, or the lack thereof. Institutions that have signiﬁ- cant payment-system operations should have a formal, written plan in place for managing the risk of both intraday and end-of-day funding failures. Failures may occur as a result of system 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 14 failure at the institution or at an institution from which payments are expected. Clear, formal communication channels should be established between the institution’s operational areas responsible for handling payment-system operations. Assessing Levels of Severity and Timing The CFP should delineate the various levels of stress severity that can occur during a contingent liquidity event and, for each type of event, identify the institution’s response plan at each stage of an event. (As an event unfolds, it often progresses through various stages and levels of severity.) The events, stages, and severity levels identiﬁed should include those that cause tem- porary disruptions, as well as those that may cause intermediate- or longer-term disruptions. Institutions can use the different stages or levels of severity to design early-warning indicators, assess potential funding needs at various points during a developing crisis, and specify compre- hensive action plans. Assessing Funding Needs and Sources of Liquidity A critical element of the CFP is an institution’s quantitative projection and evaluation of its expected funding needs and funding capacity during a stress event. The institution should identify the sequence of responses that it will mobilize during a stress event and commit sources of funds for contingent needs well in advance of a stress-related event. To accomplish this objective, the institution needs to analyze potential erosion in its funding at alternative stages or severity levels of the stress event, as well as analyze the potential cash-ﬂow mismatches that may occur during the various stress scenarios and levels. Institutions should base their analyses on realistic assessments of the behavior of funds providers during the event; they should also incorporate alternative contingency funding sources into their plans. The analysis should also include all material on- and OBS cash ﬂows and their related effects, which should result in a realistic analysis of the institution’s cash inﬂows, outﬂows, and funds availability at different time intervals throughout the potential liquidity stress event—and allow the institution to measure its ability to fund operations over an extended period. Common tools to assess funding mismatches include • Liquidity-gap analysis —A cash-ﬂow report that essentially represents a base case estimate of where funding surpluses and shortfalls will occur over various future timeframes. • Stress tests —A pro forma cash-ﬂow report with the ability to estimate future funding surpluses and shortfalls under various liquid- ity stress scenarios and the institution’s ability to fund expected asset growth projections or sustain an orderly liquidation of assets under various stress events. Identify Potential Funding Sources Because of the potential for liquidity pressures to spread from one source of funding to another during a signiﬁcant liquidity event, institutions should identify, well in advance, alternative sources of liquidity and ensure that they have ready access to contingent funding sources. These funding sources will rarely be used in the normal course of business. Therefore, institu- tions should conduct advance planning to ensure that contingent funding sources are readily avail- able. For example, the sale, securitization, or pledging of assets as collateral requires a review of these assets to determine the appropriate haircuts and to ensure compliance with the standards required for executing the strategy. Administrative procedures and agreements should also be in place before the institution needs to access the planned source of liquidity. Institu- tions should identify what advance steps they need to take to promote the readiness of each of their sources of standby liquidity. Processes for Managing Liquidity Events The CFP should identify a reliable crisis- management team and an administrative structure for responding to a liquidity crisis, including realistic action plans executing each element of the plan for each level of a stress event. Frequent communication and reporting among crisis team members, the board of direc- tors, and other affected managers optimizes the effectiveness of a contingency plan by ensur- Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 15 ing that business decisions are coordinated to minimize further liquidity disruptions. Effec- tive management of a stress event requires the daily computation of regular liquidity-risk reports and supplemental information. The CFP should provide for more-frequent and more- detailed reporting as a stress situation intensi- ﬁes. Reports that should be available in a fund- ing crisis include— • a CD breakage report to identify early redemp- tions of CDs; • funding-concentration reports; • cash-ﬂow projections and run-off reports; • funding-availability or -capacity reports, by types of funding; and • reports on the status of contingent funding sources. Framework for Monitoring Contingent Events Financial institutions should monitor for poten- tial liquidity stress events by using early- warning indicators and event triggers. These indicators should be tailored to an institution’s speciﬁc liquidity-risk proﬁle. By recognizing potential stress events early, the institution can proactively position itself into progressive states of readiness as an event evolves. This proactive stance also provides the institution with a frame- work for reporting or communicating among different institutional levels and to outside par- ties. Early-warning signals may include but are not limited to— • rapid asset growth that is funded with poten- tially volatile liabilities; • growing concentrations in assets or liabilities; • negative trends or heightened risk associated with a particular product line; • rating-agency actions (e.g., agencies watch- listing the institution or downgrading its credit rating); • negative publicity; • signiﬁcant deterioration in the institution’s earnings, asset quality, and overall ﬁnancial condition; • widening debt or credit-default-swap spreads; • difﬁculty accessing longer-term funding; • increasing collateral margin requirements; • rising funding costs in a stable market; • increasing redemptions of CDs before maturity; • counterparty resistance to OBS products; • counterparties that begin requesting backup collateral for credit exposures; and • correspondent banks that eliminate or decrease their credit lines. To mitigate the potential for reputation con- tagion when liquidity problems arise, effective communication with counterparties, credit-rating agencies, and other stakeholders is of vital importance. Smaller institutions that rarely inter- act with the media should have plans in place for how they will manage press inquiries that may arise during a liquidity event. In addition, group- wide CFPs, liquidity cushions, and multiple sources of funding are mechanisms that may mitigate reputation concerns. In addition to early-warning indicators, insti- tutions that issue public debt, use warehouse ﬁnancing, securitize assets, or engage in mate- rial OTC derivative transactions typically have exposure to event triggers that are embedded in the legal documentation governing these trans- actions. These triggers protect the investor or counterparty if the institution, instrument, or underlying asset portfolio does not perform at certain predetermined levels. Institutions that rely upon brokered deposits should also incor- porate PCA-related downgrade triggers into their CFPs since a change in PCA status could have a material bearing on the availability of this fund- ing source. Contingent event triggers should be an integral part of the liquidity-risk monitoring system. Asset-securitization programs pose height- ened liquidity concerns because an early- amortization event could produce unexpected funding needs. Liquidity contingency plans should address this risk, if it is material to the institution. The unexpected funding needs asso- ciated with an early amortization of a securiti- zation event pose liquidity concerns for the originating bank. The triggering of an early- amortization event can result in the securitiza- tion trust immediately passing principal pay- ments through to investors. As the holder of the underlying assets, the originating institution is responsible for funding new charges that would normally have been purchased by the trust. Financial institutions that engage in asset secu- ritization should have liquidity contingency plans that address this potential unexpected funding requirement. Management should receive and review reports showing the performance of the 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 16 securitized portfolio in relation to the early- amortization triggers. 2 Securitization covenants that cite supervisory thresholds or adverse supervisory actions as triggers for early-amortization events are con- sidered an unsafe and unsound banking practice that undermines the objective of supervisory actions. An early amortization triggered by a supervisory action can create or exacerbate liquidity and earnings problems that can lead to further deterioration in the ﬁnancial condition of the banking organization. 3 Securitizations of asset-backed commercial paper programs (ABCPs) are generally sup- ported by a liquidity facility or commitment to purchase assets from the trust if funds are needed to repay the underlying obligations. Liquidity needs can result from either cash-ﬂow mismatches between the underlying assets and scheduled payments of the overriding security or from credit-quality deterioration of the under- lying asset pool. Therefore, the use of liquidity facilities introduces additional risk to the insti- tution, and a commensurate capital charge is required. 4 Institutions that rely upon secured funding sources also are subject to potentially higher margin or collateral requirements that may be triggered upon the deterioration of a speciﬁc portfolio of exposures or the overall ﬁnancial condition of the institution. The ability of a ﬁnancially stressed institution to meet calls for additional collateral should be considered in the CFP . Potential collateral values also should be subject to stress tests since devaluations or market uncertainty could reduce the amount of contingent funding that can be obtained from pledging a given asset. Testing the CFP Periodic testing of the operational elements of the CFP is an important part of liquidity-risk management. By testing the various operational elements of the CFP , institutions can prevent unexpected impediments or complications in accessing standby sources of liquidity during a contingent liquidity event. It is prudent to test the operational elements of a CFP that are associated with the securitization of assets, repur- chase lines, Federal Reserve discount window borrowings, or other borrowings, since efﬁcient collateral processing during a crisis is especially important for such sources. Institutions should carefully consider whether to include unsecured funding lines in their CFPs, since these lines may be unavailable during a crisis. Larger, more-complex institutions can beneﬁt from operational simulations that test commu- nications, coordination, and decision-making of managers who have different responsibilities, who are in different geographic locations, or who are located at different operating subsidi- aries. Simulations or tests run late in the day can highlight speciﬁc problems, such as late-day stafﬁng deﬁciencies or difﬁculty selling assets or borrowing new funds near the closing time of the ﬁnancial markets. Larger, more-complex institutions can beneﬁt from operational simulations that test commu- nications, coordination, and decisionmaking of managers who have different responsibilities, who are in different geographic locations, or who are located at different operating subsidi- aries. Simulations or tests run late in the day can highlight speciﬁc problems, such as late-day stafﬁng deﬁciencies or difﬁculty selling assets or borrowing new funds near the closing time of the ﬁnancial markets. Internal Controls An institution’s internal controls consist of poli- cies, procedures, approval processes, reconcili- ations, reviews, and other types of controls to provide assurances that the institution manages liquidity risk in accordance with the board’s strategic objectives and risk tolerances. Appro- priate internal controls should address relevant elements of the risk-management process, includ- ing the institution’s adherence to policies and procedures; the adequacy of its risk identiﬁca- tion, risk measurement, and risk reporting; and its compliance with applicable rules and regula- tions. The results of reviews of the liquidity-risk management process, along with any recommen- dations for improvement, should be reported to the board of directors, which should take appro- priate and timely action. 2. See sections 2130.1, 3020.1, and 4030.1, and the OCC Handbook on Credit Card Lending , October 1996. 3. SR-02-14, ‘‘Covenants in Securitization Documents Linked to Supervisory Actions or Thresholds.’’ 4. SR-05-13, ‘‘Interagency Guidance on the Eligibility of ABCP Liquidity Facilities and the Resulting Risk-Based Capital Treatment.’’ Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 17 An important element of a bank’s internal controls is management’s comprehensive evalu- ation and review. Management should ensure that an independent party regularly reviews and evaluates the components of the institution’s liquidity-risk management process. These reviews should assess the extent to which the institution’s liquidity-risk management complies with both supervisory guidance and industry sound practices, taking into account the level of sophistication and complexity of the institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle. In larger, complex institutions, an internal audit function usually performs this review. Smaller, less complex institutions may assign the responsibil- ity for conducting an independent evaluation and review to qualiﬁed individuals who are independent of the function they are assigned to review. The independent review should report key issues requiring attention, including instances of noncompliance, to the appropriate level of management to initiate a prompt correc- tion of the issues, consistent with approved policies. Periodic reviews of the liquidity-risk manage- ment process should address any signiﬁcant changes that have occurred since the last review, such as changes in the institution’s types or characteristics of funding sources, limits, and internal controls. Reviews of liquidity-risk mea- surement systems should include assessments of the assumptions, parameters, and methodologies used. These reviews should also seek to under- stand, test, and document the current risk- measurement process; evaluate the system’s accuracy; and recommend solutions to any iden- tiﬁed weaknesses. Controls for changes to the assumptions the institution uses to make cash-ﬂow projections should require that the assumptions not be altered without clear justiﬁcation consistent with approved strategies. The name of the individual authorizing the change, along with the date of the change, the nature of the change, and justi- ﬁcation for each change, should be fully docu- mented. Documentation for all assumptions used in cash-ﬂow projections should be maintained in a readily accessible, understandable, and audit- able form. Because liquidity-risk measurement systems may incorporate one or more subsidiary systems or processes, institutions should ensure that multiple component systems are well inte- grated and consistent with each other. LIQUIDITY-RISK MANAGEMENT FOR BANK HOLDING COMPANIES Bank holding companies (BHCs) should develop and maintain liquidity-risk management pro- cesses and funding programs that are consistent with their level of sophistication and complex- ity. For BHCs (includes ﬁnancial holding com- panies, which are BHCs) see the Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual , section 4066, ‘‘Funding and Liquidity Risk Management,’’ and sections 1050.0 and 1050.1, that discuss the consolidated supervision of BHCs. See also SR-10-6, ‘‘Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management.’’ Also see sections 4010.0, ‘‘Parent Only—Debt Ser- vicing Capacity/Cash Flow’’ and 4010.2 ‘‘Par- ent Only—Liquidity.’’ SUPERVISORY PROCESS FOR EV ALUA TING LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is a primary concern for all banking organizations and is an integral compo- nent of the CAMELS rating system. Examiners should consider liquidity risk during the prepa- ration and performance of all on-site safety-and- soundness examinations as well as during tar- geted supervisory reviews. To meet examination objectives efﬁciently and effectively and remain sensitive to potential burdens imposed on insti- tutions, examiners should follow a structured, risk-focused approach for the examination of liquidity risk. Key elements of this examination process include off-site monitoring and a risk assessment of the institution’s liquidity-risk pro- ﬁle. These elements will help the examiner develop an appropriate plan and scope for the on-site examination, thus ensuring the exam is as efﬁcient and productive as possible. A fun- damental tenet of the risk-focused examination approach is the targeting of supervisory resources at functions, activities, and holdings that pose the most risk to the safety and soundness of an institution. For smaller institutions that have less com- plex liquidity proﬁles, stable funding sources, and low exposures to contingent liquidity cir- cumstances, the liquidity element of an exami- nation may be relatively simple and straightfor- ward. On the other hand, if an institution is experiencing signiﬁcant asset and product growth; 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 18 is highly dependent on potentially volatile funds; or has a complex business mix, balance-sheet structure, or liquidity-risk proﬁle that exposes the institution to contingent liquidity risks, that institution should generally receive greater supervisory attention. Given the contingent nature of liquidity risk, institutions whose cor- porate structure gives rise to inherent opera- tional risk, or institutions encountering difﬁcul- ties associated with their earnings, asset quality, capital adequacy, or market sensitivity, should be especially targeted for review of the adequacy of their liquidity-risk management. Off-Site Risk Assessment In off-site monitoring and analysis, a prelimi- nary view, or risk assessment, is developed before initiating an on-site examination. Both the inherent level of an institution’s liquidity- risk exposure and the quality of its liquidity-risk management should be assessed to the fullest extent possible during the off-site phase of the examination process. The following information can be helpful in this assessment: • organizational charts and policies that identify authorities and responsibilities for managing liquidity risk • liquidity policies, procedures, and limits • ALCO committee minutes and reports (min- utes and reports issued since the last exami- nation or going back at least six to twelve months before the examination) • board of directors reports on liquidity-risk exposures • audit reports (both internal and external) • other available internal liquidity-risk manage- ment reports, including cash-ﬂow projections that detail key assumptions • internal reports outlining funding concentra- tions, the marketability of assets, analysis that identiﬁes the relative stability or volatility of various types of liabilities, and various cash- ﬂow coverage ratios projected under adverse liquidity scenarios • supervisory surveillance reports and supervi- sory screens • external public debt ratings (if available) Quantitative liquidity exposure should be assessed by conducting as much of the supervi- sory review off-site as practicable. This off-site work includes assessing the bank’s overall liquidity-risk proﬁle and the potential for other risk exposures, such as credit, market, opera- tional, legal, and reputational risks, that may have a negative impact on the institution’s liquidity under adverse circumstances. These assessments can be conducted on a preliminary basis using supervisory screens, examiner- constructed measures, internal bank measures, and cash-ﬂow projections obtained from man- agement reports received before the on-site engagement. Additional factors to be incorpo- rated in the off-site risk assessment include the institution’s balance-sheet composition and the existence of funding concentrations, the market- ability of its assets (in the context of liquidation, securitization, or use of collateral), and the institution’s access to secondary markets of liquidity. The key to assessing the quality of manage- ment is an organized discovery process aimed at determining whether appropriate corporate- governance structures, policies, procedures, lim- its, reporting systems, CFPs, and internal con- trols are in place. This discovery process should, in particular, ascertain whether all the elements of sound liquidity-risk management are applied consistently. The results and reports of prior examinations, in addition to internal manage- ment reports, provide important information about the adequacy of the institution’s risk management. Examination Scope The off-site risk assessment provides the exam- iner with a preliminary view of both the adequacy of liquidity management and the mag- nitude of the institution’s exposure. The scope of the on-site liquidity-risk examination should be designed to conﬁrm or reject the off-site hypothesis and should target speciﬁc areas of interest or concern. In this way, on-site exami- nation procedures are tailored to the institution’s activities and risk proﬁle and use ﬂexible and targeted work-documentation programs. In gen- eral, if liquidity-risk management is identiﬁed as adequate, examiners can rely more heavily on a bank’s internal liquidity measures for assessing its inherent liquidity risk. The examination scope for assessing liquidity risk should be commensurate with the complex- ity of the institution and consistent with the Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 19 off-site risk assessment. For example, only base- line examination procedures would be used for institutions whose off-site risk assessment indi- cates that they have adequate liquidity-risk man- agement processes and low levels of inherent liquidity exposure. These institutions include those that have noncomplex balance-sheet struc- tures and banking activities and that also meet the following criteria: • well capitalized; minimal issues with asset quality, earnings, and market-risk-sensitive activities • adequate reserves of marketable securities that can serve as standby sources of liquidity • minimal funding concentrations • funding structures that are principally com- posed of stable liabilities • few OBS items, such as loan commitments, that represent contingent liquidity draws • minimal potential exposure to legal and repu- tational risk • formal adoption of well-documented liquidity- management policies, procedures, and CFPs For these and other institutions identiﬁed as potentially low risk, the scope of the on-site examination would consist of only those exami- nation procedures necessary to conﬁrm the risk- assessment hypothesis. The adequacy of liquidity- risk management could be veriﬁed through a basic review of the appropriateness of the insti- tution’s policies, internal reports, and controls and its adherence to them. The integrity and reliability of the information used to assess the quantitative level of risk could be conﬁrmed through limited sampling and testing. In general, if basic examination procedures validate the risk assessment, the examiner may conclude the examination process. High levels of inherent liquidity risk may arise if an institution has concentrations in speciﬁc business activities, products, and sec- tors, or if it has balance-sheet risks, such as unstable liabilities, risky assets, or planned asset growth without an adequate plan for funding the asset growth. OBS items that have uncertain cash inﬂows may also be a source of inherent liquidity risk. Institutions for which a risk assessment indicated high levels of inherent liquidity-risk exposure and strong liquidity man- agement may require a more extensive exami- nation scope to conﬁrm the assessment. These expanded procedures may entail more analysis of the institution’s liquidity-risk measurement system and its liquidity-risk proﬁle. When high levels of liquidity-risk exposure are found, examiners should focus special attention on the sources of this risk. When a risk assessment indicates an institution has high exposure and weak risk-management systems, an extensive work-documentation program is required. The institution’s internal measures should be used cautiously, if at all. Regardless of the sophistication or complex- ity of an institution, examiners must use care during the on-site phase of an examination to conﬁrm the off-site risk assessment and identify issues that may have escaped off-site analysis. Accordingly, the examination scope should be adjusted as on-site ﬁndings dictate. Assessing CAMELS “L” Ratings The assignment of the “L” rating is integral to the CAMELS ratings process for commercial banks. Examination ﬁndings on both (1) the inherent level of an institution’s liquidity risk and (2) the adequacy of its liquidity-risk man- agement process should be incorporated in the assignment of the “L” rating. Findings on the adequacy of liquidity-risk management should also be reﬂected in the CAMELS “M” rating for risk management. Examiners can develop an overall assessment of an institution’s liquidity-risk exposure by reviewing the various characteristics of its assets, liabilities, OBS instruments, and material busi- ness activities. An institution’s asset credit qual- ity, earnings integrity, and market risk may also have signiﬁcant implications for its liquidity- risk exposure. Importantly, assessments of the adequacy of an institution’s liquidity- management practices may affect the assess- ment of its inherent level of liquidity risk. For institutions judged to have sound and timely liquidity-risk measurement and reporting sys- tems and CFPs, examiners may use the results of the institution’s adverse-scenario cash-ﬂow pro- jections in order to gain insight into its level of inherent exposure. Institutions that have less- than-adequate measurement and reporting sys- tems and CFPs may have higher exposure to liquidity risk as a result of their potential inabil- ity to respond to adverse liquidity events. Elements of strong liquidity-risk management are particularly important during stress events and include many of the items discussed previ- 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 20 ously: communication among the departments responsible for managing liquidity, reports that indicate a diversity of funding sources, standby funding sources, cash-ﬂow analyses, liquidity stress tests, and CFPs. Liquidity-risk manage- ment should also manage the ongoing costs of maintaining liquidity. Liquidity risk should be rated in accordance with the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (UFIRS). 5 The assessment of the adequacy of liquidity-risk management should provide the primary basis for reaching an overall assessment on the ‘‘L ’’ component rating since it is a leading indicator of potential liquidity-risk exposure. Accordingly, overall ratings for liquidity-risk sensitivity should be no greater than the rating given to liquidity-risk manage- ment. In evaluating the adequacy of a ﬁnancial institution’s liquidity position, consideration should be given to the current level and prospec- tive sources of liquidity compared with funding needs, as well as to the adequacy of funds- management practices relative to the institu- tion’s size, complexity, and risk proﬁle. In general, funds-management practices should ensure that an institution is able to maintain a level of liquidity sufﬁcient to meet its ﬁnancial obligations in a timely manner and to fulﬁll the legitimate banking needs of its community. Practices should reﬂect the ability of the insti- tution to manage unplanned changes in funding sources, as well as react to changes in market conditions that affect the ability to quickly liquidate assets with minimal loss. In addition, funds-management practices should ensure that liquidity is not maintained at a high cost or through undue reliance on funding sources that may not be available in times of ﬁnancial stress or adverse changes in market conditions. Liquidity is rated based upon, but not limited to, an assessment of the following evaluation factors: • the adequacy of liquidity sources compared with present and future needs and the ability of the institution to meet liquidity needs without adversely affecting its operations or condition • the availability of assets readily convertible to cash without undue loss • access to money markets and other sources of funding • the level of diversiﬁcation of funding sources, both on- and off-balance-sheet • the degree of reliance on short-term, volatile sources of funds, including borrowings and brokered deposits, to fund longer-term assets • the trend and stability of deposits • the ability to securitize and sell certain pools of assets • the capability of management to properly identify, measure, monitor, and control the institution’s liquidity position, including the effectiveness of funds-management strategies, liquidity policies, management information systems, and CFPs Ratings of liquidity-risk management should follow the general framework used to rate over- all risk management: • A rating of 1 indicates strong liquidity levels and well-developed funds-management prac- tices. The institution has reliable access to sufﬁcient sources of funds on favorable terms to meet present and anticipated liquidity needs. • A rating of 2 indicates satisfactory liquidity levels and funds-management practices. The institution has access to sufﬁcient sources of funds on acceptable terms to meet present and anticipated liquidity needs. Modest weak- nesses may be evident in funds-management practices. • A rating of 3 indicates liquidity levels or funds-management practices in need of im- provement. Institutions rated 3 may lack ready access to funds on reasonable terms or may evidence signiﬁcant weaknesses in funds- management practices. • A rating of 4 indicates deﬁcient liquidity levels or inadequate funds-management prac- tices. Institutions rated 4 may not have or be able to obtain a sufﬁcient volume of funds on reasonable terms to meet liquidity needs. • A rating of 5 indicates liquidity levels or funds-management practices so critically deﬁcient that the continued viability of the institution is threatened. Institutions rated 5 require immediate external ﬁnancial assis- tance to meet maturing obligations or other liquidity needs. Unsafe liquidity-risk exposures and weak- nesses in managing liquidity risk should be fully reﬂected in the overall liquidity-risk ratings. 5. SR-96-38, ‘‘Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System’’ and section A.5020.1. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 21 Unsafe exposures and unsound management practices that are not resolved during the on-site examination should be addressed through sub- sequent follow-up actions by the examiner and other supervisory personnel. REFERENCES The following sources provide additional infor- mation on liquidity-risk management: • Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual , Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. • Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, ‘‘Sound Practices for Managing Liquidity in Banking Organisations,’’ publication 69, Feb- ruary 2000. • ‘‘Determining Conformance With Interest Rate Restrictions for Less Than Well Capitalized Institutions,’’ Federal Deposit Insurance Cor- poration, November 3, 2009 (FIL 62-2009) • Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Risk Management Manual of Examination Poli- cies, section 6.1—‘‘Liquidity and Funds Management.’’ • Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, Uniform Bank Performance Report. • Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management, March 17, 2010 • Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency, Comptroller’s Handbook (Safety & Sound- ness), ‘‘Liquidity,’’ February 2001. • ‘‘Process for Determining If An Institution Subject to Interest-Rate Restrictions is Oper- ating in a High-Rate Area,’’ Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, December 4, 2009 (FIL 69-2009) • SR-01-08, ‘‘Supervisory Guidance on Com- plex Wholesale Borrowings,’’ Board of Gov- ernors of the Federal Reserve System, April 5, 2001. • SR-01-14, ‘‘Joint Agency Advisory on Rate- Sensitive Deposits,’’ Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, May 31, 2001. • SR-03-15, ‘‘Interagency Advisory on the Use of the Federal Reserve’s Primary Credit Pro- gram in Effective Liquidity Management,’’ Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, July 25, 2003. • SR-10-6, ‘‘Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity-Risk Management,’’ Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, March 17, 2010. • Trading and Capital-Markets Activities Manual, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. APPENDIX 1—FUNDAMENTALS OF LIQUIDITY-RISK MEASUREMENT Measuring a ﬁnancial institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle and identifying alternative sources of funds to meet cash-ﬂow needs are critical ele- ments of sound liquidity-risk management. The liquidity-measurement techniques and the liquid- ity measures employed by depository institu- tions vary across a continuum of granularity, speciﬁcity, and complexity, depending on the speciﬁc characteristics of the institution and the intended users of the information. At one extreme, highly granular cash-ﬂow projections under alternative scenarios are used by both complex and noncomplex ﬁrms to manage their day-to-day funding mismatches in the normal course of business and for assessing their con- tingent liquidity-risk exposures. At the other end of the measurement spectrum, aggregate mea- sures and various types of liquidity ratios are often employed to convey summary views of an institution’s liquidity-risk proﬁle to various lev- els of management, the board of directors, and other stakeholders. As a result of this broad continuum, effective managers generally use a combination of cash-ﬂow analysis and summary liquidity-risk measures in managing their liquidity-risk exposures, since no one measure or measurement technique can adequately cap- ture the full dynamics of a ﬁnancial institution’s liquidity-risk exposure. This appendix provides background material on the basic elements of liquidity-risk measure- ment and is intended to enhance examiners’ understanding of the key elements of liquidity- risk management. First, the fundamental struc- ture of cash-ﬂow-projection worksheets and their use in assessing cash-ﬂow mismatches under both normal business conditions and contingent liquidity events are discussed. The appendix then discusses the key liquidity characteristics of common depository institution assets, liabili- ties, off-balance-sheet (OBS) items, and other activities. These discussions also present key management considerations surrounding various 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 22 sources and uses of liquidity in constructing cash-ﬂow worksheets and addressing funding gaps under both normal and adverse conditions. Finally, commonly used summary liquidity mea- sures and ratios are discussed, along with special considerations that should enter into the con- struction and use of these summary measures. 6 I. Basic Cash-Flow Projections In measuring an institution’s liquidity-risk pro- ﬁle, effective liquidity managers estimate cash inﬂows and cash outﬂows over future periods. For day-to-day operational purposes, cash-ﬂow projections for the next day and subsequent days out over the coming week are used in order to ensure that contractual obligations are met on time. Such daily projections can be extended out beyond a one-week horizon, although it should be recognized that the further out such projec- tions are made, the more susceptible they become to error arising from unexpected changes. For planning purposes, effective liquidity man- agers project cash ﬂows out for longer time horizons, employing various incremental time periods, or ‘‘buckets,’’ over a chosen horizon. Such buckets may encompass forward weeks, months, quarters, and, in some cases, years. For example, an institution may plan its cash inﬂows and outﬂows on a daily basis for the next 5–10 business days, on a weekly basis over the coming month or quarter, on a monthly basis over the coming quarter or quarters, and on a quarterly basis over the next half-year or year. Such cash-ﬂow bucketing is usually compiled into a single cash-ﬂow-projection worksheet or report that represents cash ﬂows under a speciﬁc future scenario. The goal of this bucketing approach is a measurement system with sufﬁ- cient granularity to (1) reveal the time dimen- sion of the needs and sources of liquidity and (2) identify potential liquidity-risk exposure to contingent events. In its most basic form, a cash-ﬂow-projection worksheet is a table with columns denoting the selected time periods or buckets for which cash ﬂows are to be projected. The rows of this table consist of various types of assets, liabilities, and OBS items, often grouped by their cash-ﬂow characteristics. Different groupings may be used to achieve different objectives of the cash-ﬂow projection. For each row, net cash ﬂows arising from the particular asset, liability, or OBS activ- ity are projected across the time buckets. The detail and granularity of the rows, and thus the projections, depend on the sophistica- tion and complexity of the institution. Complex banks generally favor more detail, while less complex banks may use higher levels of aggre- gation. Static projections based only on the contractual cash ﬂows of assets, liabilities, and OBS items as of a point in time are helpful for identifying gaps between needs and sources of liquidity. However, static projections may inad- equately quantify important aspects of potential liquidity risk because they ignore new business, funding renewals, customer options, and other potential events that may have a signiﬁcant impact on the institution’s liquidity proﬁle. Since liquidity managers are generally interested in evaluating how available liquidity sources may cover both expected and potential unexpected liquidity needs, a dynamic analysis that includes management’s projected changes in cash ﬂows is normally far more useful than a static projec- tion based only on contractual cash ﬂows as of a given projection date. In developing a cash-ﬂow-projection work- sheet, cash inﬂows occurring within a given time horizon or time bucket are represented as positive numbers, while outﬂows are repre- sented as negative numbers. Cash inﬂows include increases in liabilities as well as decreases in assets, and cash outﬂows include decreases in liabilities as well as increases in assets. For each type of asset, liability, or OBS item, and in each time bucket, the values shown in the cells of the projected worksheet are net cash-ﬂow numbers. One format for a cash-ﬂow-projection work- sheet arrays sources of net cash inﬂows (such as loans and securities) in one group and sources of net cash outﬂows (such as deposit runoffs) in another. For example, the entries across time buckets for a loan or loan category would net the positives (cash inﬂows) of projected interest, scheduled principal payments, and prepayments with the negatives (cash outﬂows) of customer draws on existing commitments and new loan growth in each appropriate time bucket. Sum- ming the net cash ﬂows within a given column or time bucket identiﬁes the extent of maturity mismatches that may exist. Funding shortfalls caused by mismatches in particular time frames 6. Material presented in this appendix draws from the OCC Liquidity Handbook, FDIC guidance, Federal Reserve guid- ance, ﬁndings from Federal Reserve supervision reviews, and other material developed for the Federal Reserve by consul- tants and other outside parties. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 23 are revealed as a ‘‘negative gap,’’ while excess funds within a time bucket denote a ‘‘positive gap.’’ Identifying such gaps early can help managers take the appropriate action to either ﬁll a negative gap or reduce a positive gap. The subtotals of the net inﬂows and net outﬂows may also be used to construct net cash-ﬂow coverage ratios or the ratio of net cash inﬂows to net cash outﬂows. The speciﬁc worksheet formats used to array sources and uses of cash can be customized to achieve multiple objectives. Exhibit 1 provides an example of one possible form of a cash-ﬂow- projection worksheet. The time buckets (col- umns) and sources and uses (rows) are selected for illustrative purposes, as the speciﬁc selection will depend on the purpose of the particular cash-ﬂow projection. In this example, assets and liabilities are grouped into two broad categories: those labeled ‘‘customer-driven cash ﬂows’’ and those labeled ‘‘management-controlled cash ﬂows.’’ This grouping arrays projected cash ﬂows on the basis of the relative extent to which funding managers may have control over changes in the cash ﬂows of various assets, liabilities, OBS items, and other activities that have an impact on cash ﬂow. For example, managers generally have less control over loan and deposit cash ﬂows (e.g., changes arising from either growth or attrition) and more control over such items as fed funds sold, investment securities, and borrowings. The net cash-ﬂow gap illustrated in the next- to-the-last row of exhibit 1 is the sum of the net cash ﬂows in each time-bucket column and reﬂects the funding gap that will have to be ﬁnanced in that time period. For the daily time buckets, this gap represents the net overnight position that needs to be funded in the unsecured short-term (e.g., fed funds) market. The ﬁnal row of the exhibit identiﬁes a cumulative net cash-ﬂow gap, which is constructed as the sum of the net cash ﬂows in that particular time bucket and all previous time buckets. It provides a running picture across time of the cumulative funding sources and needs of the institution. The worksheet presented in exhibit 1 is only one of many alternative formats that can be used in measuring liquidity gaps. II. Scenario Dependency of Cash-Flow Projections Cash-ﬂow-projection worksheets describe an institution’s liquidity proﬁle under an estab- lished set of assumptions about the future. The set of assumptions used in the cash-ﬂow projection constitutes a speciﬁc scenario custom- ized to meet the liquidity manager’s objective for the forecast. Effective liquidity managers generally use multiple forecasts and scenarios to achieve an array of objectives over planning time horizons. For example, they may use three broad types of scenarios every time they make cash-ﬂow projections: normal-course-of-business scenarios; short-term, institution-speciﬁc stress scenarios; and more-severe, intermediate-term, institution-speciﬁc stress scenarios. Larger, more complex institutions that engage in signiﬁcant capital-markets and derivatives activities also routinely project cash ﬂows for various systemic scenarios that may have an impact on the ﬁrm. Each scenario requires the liquidity manager to assess and plan for potential funding shortfalls. Importantly, no single cash-ﬂow projection reﬂects the range of liquidity sources and needs required for advance planning. Normal-course-of-business scenarios estab- lish benchmarks for the ‘‘normal’’ behavior of cash ﬂows of the institution. The cash ﬂows projected for such scenarios are those the insti- tution expects under benign conditions and should reﬂect seasonal ﬂuctuations in loans or deposit ﬂows. In addition, expected growth in assets and liabilities is generally incorporated to provide a dynamic view of the institution’s liquidity needs under normal conditions. Adverse, institution-speciﬁc scenarios are those that subject the institution to constrained liquidity conditions. Such scenarios are gener- ally deﬁned by ﬁrst specifying the type of liquidity event to be considered and then iden- tifying various levels or stages of severity for that type of event. For example, institutions that do not have publicly rated debt generally employ scenarios that entail a signiﬁcant deterioration in the credit quality of their loan and security holdings. Institutions that have publicly rated debt generally include a debt-rating downgrade scenario in their CFPs. The downgrade of an institution’s public debt rating might be speci- ﬁed as one type of event, with successively lower ratings grades, including below- investment-grade ratings, to identify increasing 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 24 levels of severity. Each level of severity can be viewed as an individual scenario for planning purposes. Effective liquidity managers ensure that they choose potential adverse liquidity sce- narios that entail appropriate degrees of severity and model cash ﬂows consistent with each level of stress. Events that limit access to important sources of funding are the most common institution-speciﬁc scenarios used. The same type of cash-ﬂow-projection work- sheet format shown in exhibit 1 can be used for adverse, institution-speciﬁc scenarios. However, in making such cash-ﬂow projections, some institutions ﬁnd it useful to organize the accounts differently to accommodate a set of very differ- ent assumptions from those used in the normal- course-of-business scenarios. Exhibit 2 presents a format in which accounts are organized by those involving potential cash outﬂows and cash inﬂows. This format focuses the analysis ﬁrst on liability erosion and potential off-balance-sheet draws, followed by an evaluation of the bank’s ability to cover potential runoff, primarily from assets that can be sold or pledged. Funding sources are arranged by their sensitivity to the chosen scenario. For example, deposits may be segregated into insured and uninsured portions. The time buckets used are generally of a shorter Exhibit 1—Example Cash-Flow-Projection Worksheet Day 1 Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Month 1 Month 3 Months 4–6 Months 7–12 Customer-driven cash ﬂows Consumer loans Business loans Residential mortgage loans Fixed assets Other assets Noninterest-bearing deposits NOW accounts MMDAs Passbook savings Statement savings CDs under $100,000 Jumbo CDs Net noninterest income Miscellaneous and other liabilities Other Subtotal Management-controlled cash ﬂows Investment securities Repos, FFP , & other short- term borrowings FHLB & other borrowings Committed lines Uncommitted lines Other Subtotal Net cash-ﬂow gap Cumulative position Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 25 Exhibit 2—Example Cash-Flow-Projection Worksheet—Liquidity Under an Adverse Scenario Potential outﬂows/funding erosion Day 1 Day 2 Days 3–7 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Month 2 Months 2+ Federal funds purchased Uncollateralized borrowings (sub-debt, MTNs, etc.) Nonmaturity deposits: insured — Noninterest-bearing deposits — NOW accounts — MMDAs — Savings Nonmaturity deposits: uninsured — Retail CDs under $100,000 — Jumbo CDs — Brokered CDs — Miscellaneous and other liabilities Subtotal Off-balance-sheet funding requirements Loan commitments Amortizing securitizations Out-of-the-money derivatives Backup lines Total potential outﬂows Potential sources to cover outﬂows Overnight funds sold Unencumbered investment securities (with appropriate haircut) Residential mortgage loans Consumer loans Business loans Fixed/other assets Unsecured borrowing capacity Brokered-funds capacity Total potential inﬂows Net cash ﬂows Coverage ratio (inﬂows/outﬂows) Cumulative coverage ratio 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 26 term than those used under business-as-usual scenarios, reﬂecting the speed at which deterio- rating conditions can affect cash ﬂows. A key goal of creating adverse-situation cash- ﬂow projections is to alert management as to whether incremental funding resources available under the constraints of each scenario are sufﬁ- cient to meet the incremental funding needs that result from that scenario. To the extent that projected funding deﬁcits are larger than (or projected funding surpluses are smaller than) desired levels, management has the opportunity to adjust its liquidity position or develop strat- egies to bring the institution back within an acceptable level of risk. Adverse systemic scenarios entail macroeco- nomic, ﬁnancial market, or organizational events that can have an adverse impact on the institu- tion and its funding needs and sources. Such scenarios are generally customized to the indi- vidual institution’s funding characteristics and business activities. For example, an institution involved in clearing and settlement activities may choose to model a payments-system dis- ruption, while a bank heavily involved in capital- markets transactions may choose to model a capital-markets disruption. The number of cash-ﬂow projections neces- sary to fully assess potential adverse liquidity scenarios can result in a wealth of information that often requires summarization in order to appropriately communicate contingent liquidity- risk exposure to various levels of management. Exhibit 3 presents an example of a report format that assesses available sources of liquidity under alternative scenarios. The worksheet shows the amount of anticipated funds erosion and poten- tial sources of funds under a number of stress scenarios, for a given time bucket (e.g., over- night, one week, one month, etc.). In this exam- ple, two rating-downgrade scenarios of different severity are used, along with a scenario built on low-earnings projections and a potential reputational-risk scenario. Exhibit 4 shows an alternative format for summarizing the results of multiple scenarios. In this case, summary funding gaps are pre- sented across various time horizons (columns) for each scenario (rows). Actual reports used should be tailored to the speciﬁc liquidity- risk proﬁle and other institution-speciﬁc characteristics. III. Liquidity Characteristics of Assets, Liabilities, Off-Balance-Sheet Positions, and Various Types of Banking Activities A full understanding of the liquidity and cash- ﬂow characteristics of the institution’s assets, liabilities, OBS items, and banking activities is critical to the identiﬁcation and management of mismatch risk, contingent liquidity risk, and market liquidity risk. This understanding is required for constructing meaningful cash-ﬂow- projection worksheets under alternative sce- narios, for developing and executing strategies used in managing mismatches, and for custom- izing summary liquidity measures or ratios. A. Assets The generation of assets is one of the primary uses of funds at banking organizations. Once acquired, assets provide cash inﬂows through principal and interest payments. Moreover, the liquidation of assets or their use as collateral for borrowing purposes makes them an important source of funds and, therefore, an integral tool in managing liquidity risk. As a result, the objec- tives underlying an institution’s holdings of various types of assets range along a continuum that balances the tradeoffs between maximizing risk-adjusted returns and ensuring the fulﬁll- ment of an institution’s contractual obligations to deliver funds (ultimately in the form of cash). Assets vary by structure, maturity, credit quality, marketability, and other characteristics that gen- erally reﬂect their relative ability to be convert- ible into cash. Cash operating accounts that include vault cash, cash items in process, correspondent accounts, accounts with the Federal Reserve, and other cash or ‘‘near-cash’’ instruments are the primary tools institutions use to execute their immediate cash-transaction obligations. They are generally not regarded as sources of addi- tional or incremental liquidity but act as the operating levels of cash necessary for executing day-to-day transactions. Accordingly, well- managed institutions maintain ongoing balances in such accounts to meet daily business trans- actions. Because they generate no or very low interest earnings, such holdings are generally maintained at the minimum levels necessary to meet day-to-day transaction needs. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 27 Exhibit 3—Example Summary Contingent-Liquidity-Exposure Report (for an Assumed Time Horizon) Events: Current Ratings downgrade Earnings Repu- tation Other (?) Scenarios: 1 cate- gory BBB to BB RoA = ? Potential funding erosion Large fund providers Fed funds CDs Eurotakings / foreign deposits Commercial paper Subtotal Other funds providers Fed funds CDs Eurotakings / foreign deposits Commercial paper DDAs Consumer MMDAs Savings Other Total uninsured funds Total insured funds Total funding Off-balance-sheet needs Letters of credit Loan commitments Securitizations Derivatives Total OBS items Total funding erosion Sources of funds Surplus money market Unpledged securities Securitizations Credit cards Autos Mortgages Loan sales Other Total internal sources Borrowing capacity Brokered-funds capacity Fed discount borrowings Other 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 28 Beyond cash and near-cash instruments, the extent to which assets contribute to an institu- tion’s liquidity proﬁle and the management of liquidity risk depends heavily on the contractual and structural features that determine an asset’s cash-ﬂow proﬁle, its marketability, and its abil- ity to be pledged to secure borrowings. The following sections discuss important aspects of these asset characteristics that effective manag- ers factor into their management of liquidity risk on an ongoing basis and during adverse liquidity events. Structural cash-ﬂow attributes of assets. Knowl- edge and understanding of the contractual and structural features of assets, such as their matu- rity, interest and amortization payment sched- ules, and any options (either explicit or embed- ded) that might affect contractual cash ﬂows under alternative scenarios, is critical for the adequate measurement and management of liquidity risk. Clearly, the maturity of assets is a key input in cash-ﬂow analysis. Indeed, the management of asset maturities is a critical tool used in matching expected cash outﬂows and Exhibit 4—Example Summary Contingent-Liquidity-Exposure Report (Across Various Time Horizons) Projected liquidity cushion 1 week 2–4 weeks 2 months 3 months 4+ months Normal course of business Total cash inﬂows Total cash outﬂows Liquidity cushion (shortfall) Liquidity coverage ratio Mild institution-speciﬁc Total cash inﬂows Total cash outﬂows Liquidity cushion (shortfall) Liquidity coverage ratio Severe institution-speciﬁc Total cash inﬂows Total cash outﬂows Liquidity cushion (shortfall) Liquidity coverage ratio Severe credit crunch Total cash inﬂows Total cash outﬂows Liquidity cushion (shortfall) Liquidity coverage ratio Capital-markets disruption Total cash inﬂows Total cash outﬂows Liquidity cushion (shortfall) Liquidity coverage ratio Custom scenario Total cash inﬂows Total cash outﬂows Liquidity cushion (shortfall) Liquidity coverage ratio Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 29 inﬂows. This matching is generally accom- plished by ‘‘laddering’’ asset maturities in order to meet scheduled cash needs out through short and intermediate time horizons. Short-term money market assets (MMAs) are the primary ‘‘laddering’’ tools used to meet funding gaps over short-term time horizons. They provide vehicles for institutions to ensure future cash availability while earning a return. Given the relatively low return on such assets, managers face important tradeoffs between earn- ings and the provision of liquidity in deploying such assets. In general, larger institutions employ a variety of MMAs in making such tradeoffs, while smaller community organizations face fewer potential sources of short-term investments. The contractual and structural features, such as the maturity and payment streams of all ﬁnancial assets, should be factored into both cash-ﬂow projections and the strategies devel- oped for ﬁlling negative funding gaps. This practice includes the assessment of embedded options in assets that can materially affect an asset’s cash ﬂow. Effective liquidity managers incorporate the expected exercise of options in projecting cash ﬂows for the various scenarios they use in measuring liquidity risk. For exam- ple, normal ‘‘business as usual’’ projections may include an estimate of the expected amount of loan and security principal prepayments under prevailing market interest rates, while alternative- scenario projections may employ estimates of expected increases in prepayments (and cash ﬂows) arising from declining interest rates and expected declines in prepayments or ‘‘maturity extensions’’ resulting from rising market inter- est rates. Market liquidity, or the ‘‘marketability’’ of assets. Marketability is the ability to convert an asset into cash through a quick ‘‘sale’’ and at a fair price. This ability is determined by the market in which the sale transaction is conducted. In general, investment-grade securities are more marketable than loans or other assets. Institu- tions generally view holdings of investment securities as a ﬁrst line of defense for contin- gency purposes, but banks need to fully assess the marketability of these holdings. The avail- ability and size of a bid-asked spread for an asset provides a general indication of the market liquidity of that asset. The narrower the spread, and the deeper and more liquid the market, the more likely a seller will ﬁnd a willing buyer at or near the asked price. Importantly, however, the market liquidity of an asset is not a static attribute but is a function of conditions prevail- ing in the secondary markets for the particular asset. Bid-asked spreads, when they exist, gen- erally vary with the volume and frequency of transactions in the particular type of assets. Larger volumes and greater frequency of trans- actions are generally associated with narrower bid-asked spreads. However, disruptions in the marketplace, contractions in the number of mar- ket makers, the execution of large block trans- actions in the asset, and other market factors may result in the widening of the bid-asked spread—and thus reduce the market liquidity of an instrument. Large transactions, in particular, can constrain the market liquidity of an asset, especially if the market for the asset is not deep. The marketability of assets may also be con- strained by the volatility of overall market prices and the underlying rates, which may cause widening bid-asked spreads on marketable assets. Some assets may be more subject to this type of market volatility than others. For example, secu- rities that have inherent credit or interest-rate risk can become more difﬁcult to trade during times when market participants have a low tolerance for these risks. This may be the case when market uncertainties prompt investors to shun risky securities in favor of more-stable investments, resulting in a so-called ﬂight to quality. In a ﬂight to quality, investors become much more willing to sacriﬁce yield in exchange for safety and liquidity. In addition to reacting to prevailing market conditions, the market liquidity of an asset can be affected by other factors speciﬁc to individual investment positions. Small pieces of security issues, security issues from nonrated and obscure issuers, and other inactively traded securities may not be as liquid as other investments. While brokers and dealers buy and sell inactive secu- rities, price quotations may not be readily avail- able, or when they are, bid-asked spreads may be relatively wide. Bids for such securities are unlikely to be as high as the bids for similar but actively traded securities. Therefore, even though sparsely traded securities can almost always be sold, an unattractive price can make the seller unenthusiastic about selling or result in potential losses in order to raise cash through the sale of an asset. Accounting conventions can also affect the market liquidity of assets. For example, Accounting Standards Codiﬁcation (ASC) 320, ‘‘Investments—Debt and Equity Securities,’’ (or 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 30 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (FAS 115)) requires investment securi- ties to be categorized as held-to-maturity (HTM), available-for-sale (AFS), or trading, signiﬁ- cantly affects the liquidity characteristics of investment holdings. Of the three categories, securities categorized as HTM provide the least liquidity, as they cannot be sold to meet liquidity needs without potentially onerous repercussions. 7 Securities categorized as AFS can be sold at any time to meet liquidity needs, but care must be taken to avoid large swings in earnings or triggering impairment recognition of securities with unrealized losses. Trading account securities are generally con- sidered the most marketable from an accounting standpoint, since selling a trading account invest- ment has little or no income effect. While securities are generally considered to have greater market liquidity than loans and other assets, liquidity-risk managers increas- ingly consider the ability to obtain cash from the sale of loans as a potential source of liquid- ity. Many types of bank loans can be sold, securitized, or pledged as collateral for borrow- ings. For example, the portions of loans that are insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government or by U.S. government–sponsored enterprises are readily saleable under most market condi- tions. From a market liquidity perspective, the primary difference between loans and securi- ties is that the process of turning loans into cash can be less efﬁcient and more time-consuming. While securitizations of loan portfolios (discussed below) are more common in practice, commercial loans and portfolios of mortgages or retail loans can be, and often are, bought and sold by banking organizations. However, the due diligence and other requirements of these transactions generally take weeks or even months to complete, depending on the size and complexity of the loans being sold. Liquidity- risk managers may include selling marketable loans as a potential source of cash in their liquidity analyses, but they must be careful to realistically time the expected receipt of cash and should carefully consider past experience and market conditions at the expected time of sale. Institutions that do not have prior experi- ence selling a loan or a mortgage portfolio often need more time to close a loan sale than does an institution that makes such transactions regularly. Additionally, in systemic liquidity or institution-speciﬁc credit-quality stress scenarios, the ability to sell loans outright may not be a realistic assumption. Securitization can be a valuable method for converting otherwise illiquid assets into cash. Advances in the capital markets have made residential mortgage, credit card, student, home equity, automobile, and other loan types increas- ingly amenable to securitization. As a result, the securitization of loans has become an important funds-management tool at many depository insti- tutions. Many institutions have business lines that originate assets speciﬁcally for securitiza- tion in the capital markets. However, while securitization can play an important role in managing liquidity, it can also increase liquidity risk—especially when excessive reliance is placed on securitization as a single source of funding. Securitization can be regarded as an ongoing, reliable source of liquidity only for institutions that have experience in securitizing the speciﬁc type of loans under consideration. The time and effort involved in structuring loan securitiza- tions make them difﬁcult to use as a source of asset liquidity for institutions that have limited experience with this activity. Moreover, pecu- liarities involved in the structures used to secu- ritize certain types of assets may introduce added complexity in managing an institution’s cash ﬂows. For example, the securitization of certain retail-credit receivables requires plan- ning for the possible return of receivable bal- ances arising from scheduled or early amortiza- tion, which may entail the funding of sizable balances at unexpected or inopportune times. Institutions using securitization as a source of funding should have adequate monitoring sys- tems and ensure that such activities are fully incorporated into all aspects of their liquidity- risk management processes—which includes assessing the liquidity impact of securitizations under adverse scenarios. This assessment is especially important for institutions that origi- nate assets speciﬁcally for securitization since market disruptions have the potential to impose the need for signiﬁcant contingent liquidity if securitizations cannot be executed. As a result, effective liquidity managers ensure that the impli- cations of securitization activities are fully con- sidered in both their day-to-day liquidity man- agement and their liquidity contingency planning. 7. HTM securities can be pledged, however, so they do still provide a potential source of liquidity. Furthermore, since the HTM-sale restriction is only an accounting standard (FAS 115)—not a market limitation—HTM securities can be sold in cases of extreme need. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 31 Pledging of assets to secure borrowings. The potential to pledge securities, loans, or other assets to obtain funds is another important tool for converting assets into cash to meet funding needs. Since the market liquidity of assets is a signiﬁcant concern to the lender of secured funds, assets with greater market liquidity are more easily pledged than less marketable assets. An institution that has a largely unpledged investment-securities portfolio has access to liquidity either through selling the investments outright or through pledging the investments as collateral for borrowings or public deposits. However, once pledged, assets are generally unavailable for supplying contingent liquidity through their sale. When preparing cash-ﬂow projections, liquidity-risk managers do not clas- sify pledged assets as ‘‘liquid assets’’ that can be sold to generate cash since the liquidity avail- able from these assets has already been ‘‘con- sumed’’ by the institution. Accordingly, when computing liquidity measures, effective liquid- ity managers avoid double-counting unpledged securities as both a source of cash from the potential sale of the asset and as a source of new liabilities from the potential collateralization of the same security. In more-sophisticated cash- ﬂow projections, the tying of the pledged asset to the funding is made explicit. Similar to the pledging of securities, many investments can be sold under an agreement to repurchase. This agreement provides the institu- tion with temporary cash without having to sell the investment outright and avoids the potential earnings volatility and transaction costs that buying and selling securities would entail. Use of haircuts in measuring the funds that can be raised through asset sales, securitiza- tions, or repurchase agreements. The planned use of asset sales, asset securitizations, or col- lateralized borrowings to meet liquidity needs necessarily involves some estimation of the value of the asset at the future point in time when the asset is anticipated to be converted into cash. Based on changes in market factors, future asset values may be more or less than current values. As a result, liquidity managers generally apply discounts, or haircuts, to the current value of assets to represent a conserva- tive estimate of the anticipated proceeds avail- able from asset sales or securitization in the capital markets. Similarly, lenders in secured borrowings also apply haircuts to determine the amount to lend against pledged collateral as protection if the value of that collateral declines. In this case, the haircut represents, in addition to other factors, the portion of asset value that cannot be converted to cash because secured lenders wish to have a collateral-protection margin. When computing cash-ﬂow projections under alternative scenarios and developing plans to meet cash shortfalls, liquidity managers ensure that they incorporate haircuts in order to reﬂect the market liquidity of their assets. Such haircuts are applied consistent with both the relative market liquidity of the assets and the speciﬁc scenario utilized. In general, longer-term, riskier assets, as well as assets with less liquid markets, are assigned larger haircuts than are shorter- term, less risky assets. For example, within the securities portfolio, different haircuts might be assigned to short-term and long-term Treasuries, rated and unrated municipal bonds, and different types of mortgage securities (e.g., pass-throughs versus CMOs). When available and appropriate, historical price changes over speciﬁed time horizons equal to the time until anticipated liquidation or the term of a borrowing are used by liquidity-risk managers to establish such haircuts. Haircuts used by nationally recognized statistical ratings organizations (NRSROs) are a starting point for such calculations but should not be unduly relied on since institution- and scenario-speciﬁc considerations may have impor- tant implications. Haircuts should be customized to the particu- lar projected or planned scenario. For example, adverse scenarios that hypothesize a capital- markets disruption would be expected to use larger haircuts than those used in projections assuming normal markets. Under institution- speciﬁc, adverse scenarios, certain assets, such as loans anticipated for sale, securitization, or pledging, may merit higher haircuts than those used under normal business scenarios. Institutions should fully document the haircuts they use to estimate the marketability of their assets. Bank-owned life insurance (BOLI) is a popu- lar instrument offering tax beneﬁts as well as life insurance on bank employees. Some BOLI poli- cies are structured to provide liquidity; however, most BOLI policies only generate cash in the event of a covered person’s death and impose substantial fees if redeemed. In general, BOLI should not be considered a liquid asset. If it is included as a potential source of funds in a cash-ﬂow analysis, a severe haircut reﬂecting 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 32 the terms of the BOLI contract and current market conditions should be applied. Liquid assets and liquidity reserves. Sound prac- tices for managing liquidity risk call for institu- tions to maintain an adequate reserve of liquid assets to meet both normal and adverse liquidity situations. Such reserves should be structured consistent with the considerations discussed above regarding the marketability of different types of assets. Many institutions identify a speciﬁc portion of their investment account to serve as a liquidity reserve, or liquidity ware- house. The size of liquidity reserves should be based on the institution’s assessments of its liquidity-risk proﬁle and potential liquidity needs under alternative scenarios, giving full consid- eration to the costs of maintaining those assets. In general, the amount of liquid assets held will be a function of the stability of the institution’s funding structures and the potential for rapid loan growth. If the sources of funds are stable, if adverse-scenario cash-ﬂow projections indicate adequate sources of contingent liquidity (includ- ing sufﬁcient sources of unused borrowing capacity), and if asset growth is predictable, then a relatively low asset liquidity reserve may be required. The availability of the liquidity reserves should be tested from time to time. Of course, liquidity reserves should be actively managed to reﬂect the liquidity-risk proﬁle of the institution and current trends that might have a negative impact on the institution’s liquidity, such as— • trading market, national, or ﬁnancial market trends that might lead rate-sensitive customers to pursue investment alternatives away from the institution; • signiﬁcant actual or planned growth in assets; • trends evidencing a reduction in large liability accounts; • a substantial portion of liabilities from rate-sensitive and credit-quality-sensitive customers; • signiﬁcant liability concentrations by product type or by large deposit account holders; • a loan portfolio consisting of illiquid, nonmar- ketable, or unpledgeable loans; • expectations for substantial draws on loan commitments by customers; • signiﬁcant loan concentrations by product, industry, customer, and location; • signiﬁcant portions of assets pledged against wholesale borrowings; and • impaired access to the capital markets. B. Liabilities Similar to its assets, a depository institution’s liabilities present a complicated array of liquid- ity characteristics. Banking organizations obtain funds from a wide variety of sources using an array of ﬁnancial instruments. The primary characteristics that determine a liability’s liquidity-risk proﬁle include its term, optional- ity, and counterparty risk tolerance (which includes the counterparty’s need for insurance or collateral). These features help to determine if an individual liability can be considered as stable or volatile. A stable liability is a reli- able source of funds that is likely to remain available in adverse circumstances. A volatile liability is a less stable source of funds that may disappear or be unavailable to the institution under heavy price competition, deteriorating credit or market- risk conditions, and other pos- sible adverse events. Developing assumptions on the relative stability or volatility of liabilities is a crucial step in forecasting a bank’s future cash ﬂows under various scenarios and in constructing various summary liquidity measures. As a result, effective liquidity manag- ers segment their liabilities into volatile and stable components on the basis of the characteristics of the liability and on the risk tolerance of the counterparty. These funds may be characterized as credit-sensitive, rate- sensitive, or both. Characteristics of stability and risk tolerance. The stability of an individual bank liability is closely related to the customer’s or counter- party’s risk tolerance, or its willingness and ability to lend or deposit money for a given risk and reward. Several factors affect the stability and risk tolerance of funds providers, including the ﬁduciary responsibilities and obligations of funds providers to their customers, the availabil- ity of insurance on the funds advanced by customers to banking organizations, the reliance of customers on public debt ratings, and the relationships funds providers have with the institution. Institutional providers of funds to banking organizations, such as money market funds, mutual funds, trust funds, public entities, and Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 33 other types of investment managers, have ﬁdu- ciary obligations and responsibilities to ade- quately assess and monitor the relative risk-and- reward tradeoffs of the investments they make for their customers, participants, or constituen- cies. These fund providers are especially sensi- tive to receiving higher returns for higher risk, and they are more apt to withdraw funds if they sense that an institution has a deteriorat- ing ﬁnancial condition. In general, funds from sources that lend or deposit money on behalf of others are less stable than funds from sources that lend their own funds. For example, a mutual fund purchaser of an institution’s negotiable CD may be expected to be less stable than a local customer buying the same CD. Institutionally placed funds and other funds providers often depend on the published evalu- ations or ratings of NRSROs. Indeed, many such funds providers may have bylaws or internal guidelines that prohibit placing funds with insti- tutions that have low ratings or, in the absence of actual guidelines, may simply be averse to retaining funds at an institution whose rating is poor or whose ﬁnancial condition shows dete- rioration. As a result, funds provided by such investors can be highly unstable in adverse liquidity environments. The availability of insurance on deposits or collateral on borrowed funds are also important considerations in gauging the stability of funds provided. Insured or collateralized funds are usually more stable than uninsured or unsecured funds since the funds provider ultimately relies on a third party or the value of collateral to protect its investment. Clearly, the nature of a customer’s relation- ship with an institution has signiﬁcant implica- tions for the potential stability or volatility of various sources of funds. Customers who have a long-standing relationship with an institution and a variety of accounts, or who otherwise use multiple banking services at the institution, are usually more stable than other types of customers. Finally, the sensitivity of a funds provider to the rates paid on the speciﬁc instrument or transaction used by the banking organization to access funds is also critical for the appropriate assessment of the stability or volatility of funds. Customers that are very rate-driven are more likely not to advance funds or remove existing funds from an institution if more competitive rates are available elsewhere. All of these factors should be analyzed for the more common types of depositors and funds providers and for the instruments they use to place funds with the institution. Such assess- ments lead to general conclusions regarding each type of customer’s or counterparty’s risk sensitivity and the stability of the funds pro- vided by the instruments they use to place funds with the institution. Exhibit 5 provides a heuris- tic schematic of how effective liquidity-risk managers conduct such an assessment regarding the array of their different funds providers. It uses a continuum to indicate the general level of risk sensitivity (and thus the expected stability of funds) expected for each type of depositor, customer, or investor in an institution’s debt obligations. Of course, individual customers and counterparties may have various degrees of such concerns, and greater granularity is generally required in practice. An additional instrument assessment of the stability or volatility of funds raised using that instrument from each type of fund provider is a logical next step in the process of evaluating the relative stability of various sources of funds to an institution. There are a variety of methods used to assess the relative stability of funds providers. Effec- tive liquidity managers generally review deposit accounts by counterparty type, e.g., consumer, small business, or municipality. For each type, an effective liquidity manager evaluates the applicability of risk or stability factors, such as whether the depositor has other relationships with the institution, whether the depositor owns the funds on deposit or is acting as an agent or manager, or whether the depositor is likely to be more aware of and concerned by adverse news reports. The depositors and counterparties con- sidered to have a signiﬁcant relationship with the institution and who are less sensitive to market interest rates can be viewed as providing stable funding. Statistical analysis of funds vola- tility is often used to separate total volumes into stable and nonstable segments. While such analy- sis can be very helpful, it is important to be mindful that historical volatility is unlikely to include a period of acute liquidity stress. The following discussions identify impor- tant considerations that should be factored into the assessment of the relative stability of various sources of funds utilized by banking organizations. Maturity of liabilities used to gather funds. An important factor in assessing the stability of funds sources is the remaining contractual life of the liability. Longer-maturity liabilities obvi- 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 34 ously provide more-stable funding than do shorter maturities. Extending liability maturities to reduce liquidity risk is a common manage- ment technique and an important sound practice used by most depository institutions. It is also a major part of the cost of liquidity management, since longer-term liabilities generally require higher interest rates than are required for similar short-term liabilities. Indeterminate maturity deposits. Evaluations of the stability of deposits with indeterminate maturities, such as various types of transaction accounts (e.g., demand deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts (NOWs) or money mar- ket demand accounts (MMDAs), and savings accounts) can be made using criteria similar to those shown in exhibit 5. In doing so, effective liquidity managers recognize that the relative stability or volatility of these accounts derives from the underlying characteristics of the cus- tomers that use them and not on the account type itself. As a result, most institutions delineate the relative volatility or stability of various sub- groups of these account types on the basis of customer characteristics. For example, MMDA deposits of customers who have ﬁduciary obli- gations may be less stable than those of indi- vidual retail customers. Additionally, funds acquired through a higher pricing strategy for these types of deposit accounts are generally less stable than are deposits from customers who have long-standing relationships with the insti- tution. Increasingly, liquidity managers recog- nize that traditional measures of “core” deposits may be inappropriate, and thus these deposits require more in-depth analysis to determine their relative stability. Assessment of the relative stability or volatil- ity of deposits that have indeterminate maturi- ties can be qualitative as well as quantitative, consistent with the size, complexity, and sophis- tication of the institution. For example, at larger institutions, models based on statistical analysis can be used to estimate the stability of various subsets of such funds under alternative liquidity environments. Such models can be used to formulate expected behaviors in reaction to rate changes and other more-typical ﬁnancial events. As they do when using models to manage any type of risk, institutions should fully document and understand the assumptions and methodolo- gies used. This is especially the case when external parties conduct such analysis. Effective liquidity managers aggressively avoid ‘‘black- box’’ estimates of funding behaviors. In most cases, insured deposits from consum- ers may be less likely to leave the institution under many liquidity circumstances than are funds supplied by more-institutional funds pro- viders. Absent extenuating circumstances (e.g., the deposit contract prohibits early withdrawal), funds provided by agents and ﬁduciaries are generally treated by banking organizations as volatile liabilities. Certiﬁcates of deposit and time deposits. At maturity, certiﬁcates of deposit (CDs) and time deposits are subject to the general factors regard- ing stability and volatility discussed above, including rate sensitivity and relationship fac- tors. Nonrelationship and highly-rate-sensitive Exhibit 5—General Characteristics of Stable and Volatile Liabilities Characteristics of funds providers that affect the stability/ volatility of the funds provided Types of funds providers Fiduciary agent or own funds Insured or secured Reliance on public information Relationship Stability assessment Consumers owner yes low high high Small business owner in part low high medium Large corporate owner no medium medium low Banks agent no high medium medium Municipalities agent in part high medium medium Money market mutual funds quasi- ﬁduciary no high low low Other Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 35 deposits tend to be less stable than deposits placed by less-rate-sensitive customers who have close relationships with the institution. Insured CDs are generally considered more stable than uninsured ‘‘jumbo’’ CDs in denominations of more than $100,000. In general, jumbo CDs and negotiable CDs are more volatile sources of funds—especially during times of stress—since they may be less relationship-driven and have a higher sensitivity to potential credit problems. Brokered deposits and other rate-sensitive depos- its. Brokered deposits are funds a bank obtains, directly or indirectly, by or through any deposit broker, for deposit into one or more accounts. Thus, brokered deposits include both those in which the entire beneﬁcial interest in a given bank deposit account or instrument is held by a single depositor and those in which the deposit broker pools funds from more than one investor for deposit in a given bank deposit account. Rates paid on brokered deposits are often higher than those paid for local-market-area retail deposits since brokered-deposit customers are generally focused on obtaining the highest FDIC- insured rate available. These rate-sensitive cus- tomers have easy access to, and are frequently well informed about, alternative markets and investments, and they may have no other rela- tionship with or loyalty to the bank. If market conditions change or more-attractive returns become available, these customers may rapidly transfer their funds to new institutions or invest- ments. Accordingly, these rate-sensitive deposi- tors may exhibit characteristics more typical of wholesale investors, and liquidity-risk managers should model brokered deposits accordingly. The use of brokered deposits is governed by law and covered by the 2001 Joint Agency Advisory on Brokered and Rate-Sensitive Depos- its. 8 Under 12 USC 1831f and 12 CFR 337.6, determination of ‘‘brokered’’ status is based initially on whether a bank actually obtains a deposit directly or indirectly through a deposit broker. Banks that are considered only ‘‘ad- equately capitalized’’ under the ‘‘prompt correc- tive action’’ (PCA) standard must receive a waiver from the FDIC before they can accept, renew, or roll over any brokered deposit. They are also restricted in the rates they may offer on such deposits. Banks falling below the ade- quately capitalized range may not accept, renew, or roll over any brokered deposit, nor solicit deposits with an effective yield more than 75 basis points above the “national rate.” The national rate is deﬁned as “a simple average of rates paid by all insured depository institutions and branches for which data are available.” On a weekly basis, the “national rate” is posted on the FDIC’s website. If a depository institution believes that the “national rate” does not corre- spond to the actual prevailing rate in the appli- cable market, the institution may seek a deter- mination from the FDIC that the institution is operating in a “high-rate area.” If the FDIC makes such a determination, the bank will be allowed to offer the actual prevailing rate plus 75 basis points. In any event, for deposits accepted outside the applicable market area, the bank will not be allowed to offer rates in excess of the “national rate” plus 75 basis points. These restrictions will reduce the availability of funding alternatives as a bank’s condition deteriorates. The FDIC is not authorized to grant waivers for banks that are less than adequately capitalized. Bank managers who use brokered deposits should be familiar with the regulations governing brokered deposits and understand the requirements for requesting a waiver. Further detailed information regarding brokered depos- its can be found in the FDIC’s Financial Insti- tution Letter (FIL), 69-2009. Deposits attracted over the Internet, through CD listing services, or through special advertis- ing programs that offer premium rates to cus- tomers who do not have another banking rela- tionship with the institution also require special monitoring. Although these deposits may not fall within the technical deﬁnition of ‘‘bro- kered’’ in 12 USC 1831f and 12 CFR 337.6, their inherent risk characteristics may be similar to those of brokered deposits. That is, such deposits are typically attractive to rate-sensitive customers who may not have signiﬁcant loyalty to the bank. Extensive reliance on funding products of this type, especially those obtained from outside a bank’s geographic market area, has the potential to weaken a bank’s funding position in times of stress. Under the 2001 joint agency advisory, banks are expected to perform adequate due diligence before entering any business relationship with a deposit broker; assess the potential risks to earnings and capital associated with brokered deposits; and fully incorporate the assessment 8. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and Ofﬁce of Thrift Supervision. May 11, 2001. See SR-01-14. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 36 and control of brokered deposits into all ele- ments of their liquidity-risk management pro- cesses, including CFPs. Public or government deposits. Public funds generally represent deposits of the U.S. govern- ment, state governments, and local political subdivisions; they typically require collateral to be pledged against them in the form of securi- ties. In most banks, deposits from the U.S. government represent a much smaller portion of total public funds than that of funds obtained from states and local political subdivisions. Liquidity-risk managers generally consider the secured nature of these deposits as being a double-edged sword. On the one hand, they reduce contingent liquidity risk because secured funds providers are less credit-sensitive, and therefore their deposits may be more stable than those of unsecured funds providers. On the other hand, such deposits reduce standby liquidity by ‘‘consuming’’ the potential liquidity in the pledged collateral. Rather than pledge assets as collateral for public deposits, banks may also purchase an insurance company’s surety bond as coverage for public funds in excess of FDIC insurance limits. Here, the bank would not pledge assets to secure deposits, and the purchase of surety bonds would not affect the availability of funds to all depositors in the event of insolvency. The costs associated with the purchase of a surety bond must be taken into consideration when using this alternative. Deposits from taxing authorities (most school districts and municipalities) also tend to be highly seasonal. The volume of public funds rises around tax due dates and falls near the end of the period before the next tax due date. This ﬂuctuation is clearly a consideration for liquid- ity managers projecting cash ﬂows for normal operations. State and local governments tend to be very rate-sensitive. Effective liquidity man- agers fully consider the contingent liquidity risk these deposits entail, that is, the risk that the deposits will not be maintained, renewed, or replaced unless the bank is willing to offer very competitive rates. Eurodollar deposits. Eurodollar time deposits are certiﬁcates of deposit issued by banks out- side of the United States. Large, internationally active U.S. banks may obtain Eurodollar funding through their foreign branches—including off- shore branches in the Cayman Islands or other similar locales. Eurodollar deposits are usually negotiable CDs issued in amounts of $100,000 or more, with rates tied to LIBOR. Because they are negotiable, the considerations applicable to negotiable CDs set forth above also apply to Eurodollar deposits. Federal funds purchased. Federal funds (fed funds) are excess reserves held at Federal Reserve Banks. The most common type of federal funds transaction is an overnight, unse- cured loan. Transactions that are for a period longer than one day are called term fed funds. The day-to-day use of fed funds is a common occurrence, and fed funds are considered an important money market instrument used in managing daily liquidity needs and sources. Many regional and money-center banks, act- ing in the capacity of correspondents to smaller community banks, function as both providers and purchasers of federal funds. Overnight fed funds purchased can pose a contingent liquidity risk, particularly if a bank is unable to roll over or replace the maturing borrowing under stress conditions. Term fed funds pose almost the same risk since the term is usually just a week or two. Fed funds purchased should generally be treated as a volatile source of funds. Loans from correspondent banks. Small and medium-sized banks often negotiate loans from their principal correspondent banks. The loans are usually for short periods and may be secured or unsecured. Correspondent banks are usually moderately credit-sensitive. Accordingly, cash- ﬂow projections for normal business conditions and mild adverse scenarios may often treat these funds as stable. However, given the credit sen- sitivity of such funds, projections computed for severe adverse liquidity scenarios should treat these funds as volatile. FHLB borrowings. The Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) provide loans, referred to as advances, to members. Advances must be secured by collateral acceptable to the FHLB, such as residential mortgage loans and mortgage- backed securities. Both short-term and long- term FHLB borrowings, with maturities ranging from overnight to 10 years, are available to member institutions at generally competitive interest rates. For some small and medium-sized banks, long-term FHLB advances may be a signiﬁcant or the only source of long-term funding. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 37 It should be noted that FHLBs may also sell their excess cash into the market in the form of fed funds. This is a transaction where the FHLB is managing its excess funding and has chosen to invest that excess in short-term unsecured fed funds. This transaction is executed through the capital markets and is not done with speciﬁc members of the FHLB. Some FHLB advances contain embedded options or other features that may increase funding risk. For example, some types of advances, such as putable and convertible advances, provide the FHLB with the option to either recall the advance or change the inter- est rate on an advance from a ﬁxed rate to a ﬂoating rate under speciﬁed conditions. When such optionality exists, institutions should fully assess the implications of this optionality on the liquidity-risk proﬁle of the institution. In general, an FHLB establishes a line of credit for each of its members. Members are required to purchase FHLB stock before a line of credit is established, and the FHLB has the ability to restrict the redemption of its stock. An FHLB may also limit or deny a member’s request for an advance if the member engages in any unsafe or unsound practice, is inadequately capitalized, sustains operating losses, is deﬁ- cient with respect to ﬁnancial or managerial resources, or is otherwise deﬁcient. Because FHLB advances are secured by col- lateral, the unused FHLB borrowing capacity of a bank is a function of both its eligible, unpledged collateral and its unused line of credit with its FHLB. FHLBs have access to bank regulatory infor- mation not available to other lenders. The com- posite rating of an institution is a factor in the approval for obtaining an FHLB advance, as well as the level of collateral required and the continuance of line availability. Because of this access to regulatory data, an FHLB can react quickly to reduce its exposure to a troubled institution by exercising options or not rolling over unsecured lines of credit. Depending on the severity of a troubled institution’s condition, an FHLB has the right to increase collateral require- ments or to discontinue or withdraw (at matu- rity) its collateralized funding program because of concerns about the quality or reliability of the collateral or other credit-related concerns. On the one hand, this right may create liquidity problems for an institution, especially if it has large amounts of short-term FHLB funding. At the same time, because FHLB advances are fully collateralized, the various FHLBs have histori- cally worked with regulators prior to exercising their option to fully withdraw funding from members. To this extent, FHLB borrowings are viewed by many liquidity managers as a rela- tively stable source of funding, barring the most severe of adverse funding situations. Sound liquidity-risk management practices call for institutions to fully document the pur- pose of any FHLB-borrowing transaction. Each transaction should be analyzed on an ongoing basis to determine whether the arrangement achieves the stated purpose or whether the borrowings are a sign of liquidity deﬁciencies. Some banks may use their FHLB line of credit to secure public funds; however, doing so will reduce their available funds and may present problems if the FHLB reduces the institution’s credit line. Additionally, the institution should periodically review its borrowing agreement with the FHLB to determine the assets collater- alizing the borrowings and the potential risks presented by the agreement. In some instances, the borrowing agreement may provide for col- lateralization by all assets not already pledged for other purposes. Repurchase agreements and dollar rolls. The terms repurchase agreement 9 (repo) and reverse repurchase agreement refer to transactions in which a bank acquires funds by selling securi- ties and simultaneously agreeing to repurchase the securities after a speciﬁed time at a given price, which typically includes interest at an agreed-on rate. A transaction is considered a repo when viewed from the perspective of the supplier of the securities (the borrower) and a reverse repo or matched sale–purchase agree- ment when described from the point of view of the supplier of funds (the lender). A repo commonly has a near-term maturity (overnight or a few days) with tenors rarely exceeding three months. Repos are also usu- ally arranged in large dollar amounts. Repos may be used to temporarily ﬁnance the purchase of securities and dealer securities inventories. Banking organizations also use repos as a substitute for direct borrowings. Bank securi- ties holdings as well as loans are often sold under repurchase agreements to generate temporary working funds. These types of agree- ments are often used because the rate on this 9. See section 3010.1. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 38 type of borrowing is less than the rate on unsecured borrowings, such as federal funds purchased. U.S. government and agency securities are the most common type of instruments sold under repurchase agreements, since they are exempt from reserve requirements. However, market participants sometimes alter various contract provisions to accommodate speciﬁc investment needs or to provide ﬂexibility in the designation of collateral. For example, some repo contracts allow substitutions of the securities subject to the repurchase commitment. These transactions are often referred to as dollar repurchase agree- ments (dollar rolls), and the initial seller’s obli- gation is to repurchase securities that are sub- stantially similar, but not identical, to the securities originally sold. To qualify as a ﬁnanc- ing, these agreements require the return of “substantially similar securities” and cannot exceed 12 months from the initiation of the transaction. The dollar-roll market primarily consists of agreements that involve mortgage- backed securities. Another common repo arrangement is called an open repo, which provides a ﬂexible term to maturity. An open repo is a term agreement between a dealer and a major customer in which the customer buys securities from the dealer and may sell some of them back before the ﬁnal maturity date. Effective liquidity-risk managers ensure that they are aware of special considerations and potential risks of repurchase agreements, espe- cially when the bank enters into large-dollar- volume transactions with institutional investors or brokers. It is a fairly common practice to adjust the collateral value of the underlying securities daily to reﬂect changes in market prices and to maintain the agreed-on margin. Accordingly, if the market value of the repo-ed securities declines appreciably, the borrower may be asked to provide additional collateral. Conversely, if the market value of the securities rises substantially, the lender may be required to return the excess collateral to the borrower. If the value of the underlying securities exceeds the price at which the repurchase agreement was sold, the bank could be exposed to the risk of loss if the buyer is unable to perform and return the securities. This risk would increase if the securities were physically transferred to the institution or broker with which the bank has entered into the repurchase agreement. Because these instruments are usually very short-term transactions, institutions using them incur contingent liquidity risk. Accordingly, cash-ﬂow projections for normal and mild sce- narios usually treat these funds as stable. How- ever, projections computed for severe scenarios generally treat these funds as volatile. International borrowings. International borrow- ings may be direct or indirect. Common forms of direct international borrowings include loans and short-term call money from foreign banks, borrowings from the Export-Import Bank of the United States, and overdrawn nostro accounts (due from foreign bank demand accounts). Indirect forms of borrowing include notes and trade bills rediscounted with the central banks of various countries; notes, acceptances, import drafts, or trade bills sold with the bank’s endorsement or guarantee; notes and other obligations sold subject to repurchase agree- ments; and acceptance pool participations. In general, these borrowings are often considered to be highly volatile, nonstable sources of funds. Federal Reserve Bank borrowings. In 2003, the Federal Reserve Board revised Regulation A to provide for primary and secondary credit programs at the discount window. 10 (See section 4025.1.) Reserve Banks will extend primary credit at a rate above the target fed funds rate on a short-term basis (typically, overnight) to eligible depository institutions, and acceptable collateral is required to secure all obligations. Discount window borrowings can be secured with an array of collateral, including consumer and commercial loans. Eligibility for primary credit is based largely on an institution’s examination rating and capital status. In gen- eral, institutions with composite CAMELS rat- ings of 1, 2, or 3 that are at least adequately capitalized are eligible for primary credit unless supplementary information indicates their condition is not generally sound. Other condi- tions exist to determine eligibility for 4- and 5-rated institutions. An institution eligible for primary credit need not exhaust other sources of funds before com- ing to the discount window. However, because 10. See the “Interagency Advisory on the Use of the Federal Reserve’s Primary Credit Program in Effective Liqu id- ity Management,” Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Ofﬁce of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and Ofﬁce of Thrift Supervi- sion, July 25, 2003, and SR-03-15. See also section 3010.1. Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 39 of the above-market price of primary credit, the Reserve Banks expect institutions to mainly use the discount window as a backup source of liquidity rather than as a routine source. Gener- ally, Reserve Banks extend primary credit on an overnight basis with minimal administrative requirements to eligible institutions. Reserve Banks may also extend primary credit to eligible institutions for periods of up to several weeks if funding is not available from other sources. These longer extensions of credit are subject to greater administrative oversight. Reserve Banks also offer secondary credit to institutions that do not qualify for primary credit. Secondary credit is another short-term backup source of liquidity, although its availability is more limited and is generally used for emergency backup purposes. Reserve Banks extend secondary credit to assist in an institution’s timely return to a reliance on traditional funding sources or in the resolution of severe ﬁnancial difﬁculties. This program entails a higher level of Reserve Bank adminis- tration and oversight than primary credit. Treasury Tax and Loan deposits. Treasury Tax and Loan accounts (TT&L accounts) are main- tained at banks by the U.S. Treasury to facilitate payments of federal withholding taxes. Banks may select either the ‘‘remittance-option’’ or the ‘‘note-option’’ method of forwarding deposited funds to the U.S. Treasury. In the remittance option, the bank remits the TT&L account deposits to the Federal Reserve Bank the next business day after deposit, and the remittance portion is not interest-bearing. The note option permits the bank to retain the TT&L deposits. In the note option, the bank debits the TT&L remittance account for the amount of the previ- ous day’s deposit and simultaneously credits the note-option account. Note-option accounts are interest-bearing and can grow to a substantial size. TT&L funds are considered purchased funds, evidenced by an interest-bearing, variable-rate, open-ended, secured note callable on demand by Treasury. As per 31 CFR 203.24, the TT&L balance requires pledged collateral, usually from the bank’s investment portfolio. Because they are secured, TT&L balances reduce standby liquidity from investments, and because they are callable, TT&L balances are considered to be volatile and they must be carefully monitored. However, in most banks, TT&L deposits constitute only a minor portion of total liabilities. C. Off-Balance-Sheet Obligations Off-balance-sheet transactions have been one of the fastest-growing areas of banking activity. While these activities may not be reﬂected on the balance sheet, they must be thoroughly reviewed in assessing an institution’s liquidity- risk proﬁle, as they can expose the institution to signiﬁcant contingent liquidity risk. Effective liquidity-risk managers pay particular attention to potential liquidity risks in loan commitments, lines of credit, performance guarantees, and ﬁnancial guarantees. Banks should estimate both the amount and the timing of potential cash ﬂows from off-balance-sheet claims. Effective liquidity managers ensure that they consider the correlation of draws on various types of commitments that can trend with mac- roeconomic conditions. For example, standby letters of credit issued in lieu of construction completion bonds are often drawn when build- ers cannot fulﬁll their contracts. Some types of credit lines, such as those used to provide working capital to businesses, are most heavily used when either the borrower’s accounts receiv- able or inventory is accumulating faster than its collections of accounts payable or sales. Liquidity-risk managers should work with the appropriate lending managers to track such trends. In addition, funding requirements arising from some types of commitments can be highly correlated with the counterparty’s credit quality. Financial standby letters of credit (SBLOCs) are often used to back the counterparty’s direct ﬁnancial obligations, such as commercial paper, tax-exempt securities, or the margin require- ments of securities and derivatives exchanges. At some institutions, a major portion of off- balance-sheet claims consists of SBLOCs sup- porting commercial paper. If the institution’s customer issues commercial paper supported by an SBLOC and if the customer is unable to repay the commercial paper at maturity, the holder of the commercial paper will request that the institution perform under the SBLOC. Liquidity-risk managers should work with the appropriate lending manager to (1) monitor the credit grade or default probability of such coun- terparties and (2) manage the industry diversiﬁ- cation of these commitments in order to reduce the probability that multiple counterparties will be forced to draw against the bank’s commit- ments at the same time. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 40 Funding under some types of commitments can also be highly correlated with changes in the institution’s own ﬁnancial condition or per- ceived credit quality. Commitments supporting various types of asset-backed securities, asset- backed commercial paper, and derivatives can be subject to such contingent liquidity risk. The securitization of assets generally requires some form of credit enhancement, which can take many forms, including SBLOCs or other types of guarantees issued by a bank. Similarly, many structures employspecial-purpose entities(SPEs) that own the collateral securing the asset-backed paper. Bank SBLOCs or guarantees often sup- port those SPEs. As long as the institution’s credit quality remains above deﬁned minimums, which are usually based on ratings from NRS- ROs, few or none of the SBLOCs will fund. However, if the institution’s credit rating falls below the minimum, a signiﬁcant amount or all of such commitments may fund at the same time. Financial derivatives can also give rise to contingent liquidity risk arising from ﬁnancial market disruptions and deteriorating credit qual- ity of the banking organization. Derivatives contracts should be reviewed, and their potential for early termination should be assessed and quantiﬁed, to determine the adequacy of the institution’s available liquidity. Many forms of standardized derivatives contracts allow counterparties to request collateral or to terminate contracts early if the institution experiences an adverse credit event or deteriora- tion in its ﬁnancial condition. In addition, under situations of market stress, a customer may ask for early termination of some contracts. In such circumstances, an institution that owes money on derivatives transactions may be required to deliver collateral or settle a contract early, when the institution is encountering additional fund- ing and liquidity pressures. Early terminations may also create additional, unintended market exposures. Management and directors should be aware of these potential liquidity risks and ad- dress them in the institution’s CFP . All off- balance-sheet commitments and obligations should receive the focused attention of liquidity-risk managers throughout the liquidity- risk management process. D. Specialized Business Activities Institutions that engage in specialized banking activities should ensure that all elements of these activities are fully incorporated into their assessment of liquidity-risk exposure and their ongoing management of the ﬁrm’s liquidity. Such activities may include mortgage servicing, trading and dealer activities, and various types of fee-income-generating businesses. Institutions engaged in signiﬁcant payment, clearing, and settlement activities face particular challenges. Institutions that are active in pay- ment, settlement, or clearing activities should ensure that they have mechanisms for measur- ing, monitoring, and identifying the amount of liquidity they may need to settle obligations in normal as well as stressed environments. These institutions should fully consider the unique risks that may result from their participation in different payment-system activities and factor these risks into their liquidity contingency plan- ning. Factors that banks should consider when developing liquidity plans related to payment activities include— • the impact of pay-in rules of individual pay- ment systems, which may result in short- notice payment adjustments and the need to assess peak pay-in requirements that could result from the failure of another participant; • the potential impact of operational disruptions at a payment utility and the potential need to move activity to another venue in which settlement is gross rather than net, thereby increasing liquidity requirements to settle; • the impact that the deteriorating credit quality of the institution may have on collateral requirements, changes in intraday lending lim- its, and the institution’s intraday funding needs; and • for clearing and nostro service providers, the impact of potential funding needs that could be generated by their clearing customers in addition to the bank’s own needs. IV . Summary Measures of Liquidity-Risk Exposure Cash-ﬂow projections constructed assuming normal and adverse conditions provide a wealth of information about the liquidity proﬁle of an institution. However, liquidity managers, bank Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 41 supervisors, rating agencies, and other interested parties use a myriad of summary measures of liquidity to identify potential liquidity risk. These measures include various types of ﬁnancial ratios. Many of these measures attempt to achieve some of the same insights provided by comprehensive cash-ﬂow scenario analyses but use signiﬁcantly less data. When calculated using standard deﬁnitions and comparable data, such measures provide the ability to track trends over time and facilitate comparisons across peers. At the same time, however, many summary measures necessarily entail simplifying assumptions regarding the liquidity of assets, the relative stability or volatility of liabilities, and the ability of the institution to meet potential funding needs. Supervisors, management, and other stakehold- ers that use these summary measures should fully understand the effect of these assump- tions and the limitations associated with sum- mary measures. Although general industry conventions may be used to compute various summary measures, liquidity managers should ensure that the spe- ciﬁc measures they use for internal purposes are suitably customized for their particular institu- tion. Importantly, effective liquidity managers recognize that no single summary measure or ratio captures all of the available sources and uses of liquidity for all situations and for all time periods. Different ratios capture different facets of liquidity and liquidity risk. Moreover, the same summary measure or ratio calculated using different assumptions can also capture different facets of liquidity. This is an especially impor- tant point since, by deﬁnition, many liquidity ratios are scenario-speciﬁc. Measures con- structed using normal-course-of-business assumptions can portray liquidity proﬁles that are signiﬁcantly different from those constructed assuming stress contingency events. Indeed, many liquidity managers use the same summary measures and ﬁnancial ratios computed under alternative scenarios and assumptions to evalu- ate and communicate to senior management and the board of directors the institution’s liquidity- risk proﬁle and the adequacy of its CFPs. A. Cash-Flow Ratios Cash-ﬂow ratios are especially valuable sum- mary liquidity measures. These measures sum- marize the information contained in detailed cash-ﬂow projections and forecasts. They are generally constructed as the ratio of total pro- jected cash inﬂows divided by total projected cash outﬂows for a particular time period or cash-ﬂow-projection time bucket. The ratio for a given time bucket indicates the relative amount by which the projected sources of liquidity cover projected needs. For example, a ratio of 1.20 indicates a liquidity ‘‘surplus’’ equal to 20 percent of projected outﬂows. In general, such coverage ratios are compiled for each time bucket in the cash-ﬂow projections used to assess both normal and adverse liquidity circumstances. Some institutions also employ cumulative cash-ﬂow ratios that are computed as the ratio of the cumulative sum of cash inﬂows to the cumulative sum of cash outﬂows for all time buckets up to a given time bucket. However, care should be taken to recognize that cumula- tive cash-ﬂow ratios used alone and without the beneﬁt of assessing the individual time-period exposures for each of their component time buckets may mask liquidity-risk exposures that can exist at intervals up to the cumulative time horizons chosen. B. Other Summary Liquidity Measures Other common summary liquidity measures employ assumptions about, and depend heavily on, the assessment and characterization of the relative marketability and liquidity of assets and the relative stability or volatility of funding needs and sources, consistent with the consider- ations discussed in the prior section. Liquidity managers use these other measures to review historical trends, summarize their projections of potential liquidity-risk exposures under adverse liquidity conditions, and develop strategies to address contingent liquidity events. In selecting from the myriad of available measures, effective liquidity managers focus primarily on those measures that are most related to the liquidity- management strategies pursued by the institu- tion. For example, institutions that focus on managing asset liquidity place greater emphasis on measures that gauge such conditions, while institutions placing greater emphasis on manag- ing liability liquidity emphasize measures that address those aspects of their liquidity-risk proﬁle. The following discussions brieﬂy describe some of the more common summary measures 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 42 of liquidity and liquidity risk. Some of these measures are employed by liquidity managers, rating agencies, and supervisors using deﬁni- tions and calculation methods amenable to pub- licly available Call Report or BHC Performance Report data. Because such data require the use of assumptions on the liquidity of broad classes of assets and on the stability of various types of aggregated liabilities, liquidity managers and supervisors should take full advantage of the available granularity of internal data to custom- ize the summary measures they are using. Incor- porating internal data ensures that summary measures ﬁt the speciﬁc liquidity proﬁle of the institution. Such customization permits a more robust assessment of the institution’s liquidity- risk proﬁle. In general, most common summary measures of liquidity and liquidity risk can be grouped into the following three broad categories: 1. those that portray the array of assets along a continuum of liquidity and cash-ﬂow charac- teristics for normal and potentially adverse circumstances 2. those that portray the array of liabilities along a continuum of potential volatility and stabil- ity characteristics under normal and poten- tially adverse circumstances 3. those that assess the balance between fund- ing needs and sources based on assumptions about both the relative liquidity of assets and the relative stability of liabilities Relative liquidity of assets. Summary measures that address the liquidity of assets usually start with assessments of the maturity or type of assets in an effort to gauge their contributions to actual cash inﬂows over various time horizons. In general, they represent an attempt to summa- rize and characterize the expected cash inﬂows from assets that are estimated in more-detailed cash-ﬂow-projection worksheets assuming nor- mal business conditions. Summary measures assessing the liquidity of assets include such measures as— • short-term investments (deﬁned as maturing within a speciﬁed time period, such as 3 months, 6 months, or 1 year) as a percent of total investments, and • short-term assets (deﬁned as maturing within a speciﬁed time period) as a percent of total assets. Other measures within this category attempt to assess the expected time period over which longer-term, illiquid assets may need to be funded. These measures, which use broad asset categories and employ strong assumptions on the liquidity of these assets, include— • loans and leases as a percent of total assets, and • long-term assets (deﬁned as maturing beyond a speciﬁed time period) as a percent of total assets. To better gauge the potential for assets to be used as sources of liquidity to meet uncertain future cash needs, effective liquidity managers use additional ‘‘liquid asset’’ summary measures that are customized to take into account the ability (or inability) to convert assets into cash or borrowed funds. Such measures attempt to summarize the potential for sale, securitization, or use as collateral of different types of assets, subject to appropriate scenario-speciﬁc haircuts. Such measures also attempt to recognize the constraints on potential securitization and on those assets that have already been pledged as collateral for existing borrowings. Examples of these measures include— • marketable securities (as determined by the assessment of cash-ﬂow, accounting, and hair- cut considerations discussed in the previous section) to total securities; • marketable securities as a percent of total assets; • marketable assets (as determined by the assess- ment of cash-ﬂow, accounting, and haircut considerations discussed in the previous sec- tion) to total assets; • pledgable assets (e.g., unpledged securities and loans) as a percent of total assets; • pledged securities (or pledged assets) to total pledgable securities (or pledgable assets); • securitizable assets to total assets (sometimes computed to include some assessment of the time frame that may be involved); and • liquid assets to total assets with the measure of liquid assets being some combination of short- term assets, marketable securities, and securi- tizable and pledgable assets (ensuring that any pledged assets are not double-counted). Relative stability or volatility of liabilities as a source of funding. Summary measures used to assess the relative stability or volatility of lia- Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 43 bilities as sources of funding often start with assessments of the maturity of liabilities and their ability to be ‘‘rolled-over’’ or renewed under both normal business and potentially adverse circumstances. These measures also represent an attempt to summarize and characterize the use of actual and potential sources of funds, which are estimated in more- detailed cash-ﬂow-projection worksheets. In fact, proper construction of many of these sum- mary measures requires the same analytical assessments required for cash-ﬂow projections. Such measures attempt to gauge and array the relative sensitivity and availability of different sources of funds on the basis of the anticipated behavior of various types of transactions, busi- ness activities, funds providers, or other attributes. Given the difﬁculties involved in portraying funding sources across the entire continuum of stability and volatility characteristics, along with the complexity of overlaying alternative contin- gent scenarios on such portrayals, some com- mon summary measures attempt to group fund- ing sources as falling on one side or the other of this continuum. Financial ratios that attempt to portray the extent to which an institution’s funding sources are stable include— • total deposits as a percent of total liabilities or total assets; • insured deposits as a percent of total deposits; • deposits with indeterminate maturities as a percent of total deposits; and • long-term liabilities (deﬁned as maturing beyond a speciﬁed time period) to total liabilities. These measures necessarily employ assump- tions about the stability of an institution’s deposit base in an attempt to deﬁne a set of relatively stable or core funding sources. Liquidity man- agers and examiners should take care in con- structing their estimates of stable or core liabili- ties for use in such measures. This caution has become especially important as changes in customer sophistication and interest-rate sensi- tivity have altered behavioral patterns and, there- fore, the stability characteristics traditionally assumed for retail and other types of deposits traditionally termed ‘‘core.’’ As a result, exam- iners, liquidity managers, and other parties should use more-granular breakouts of funding sources to assess the relative stability of deposits and should not place undue reliance on standard- ized traditional measures of core deposits. Break- outs that use such a greater granularity include— • various breakouts of retail deposits to total deposits based on product type (MMDA, demand deposit, savings account, etc.) and customer segmentation to total deposits or liabilities; • breakouts of various types of institutional deposits (e.g., collateralized deposits of municipal and government entities) as a per- cent of deposits; and • various breakouts of brokered deposits (by size, types of fund providers, and maturity). At the other end of the stability/volatility continuum, some summary measures focus on identifying those sources of funding that need to be rolled over in the short term under normal business conditions and those whose rollover or usage in the future may be especially sensitive to institution-speciﬁc contingent liquidity events. These measures include— • short-term liabilities (deﬁned as fund sources maturing within a speciﬁed time period, such as 3 months, 6 months, or 1 year) as a percent of total liabilities; • short-term brokered deposits as a percent of total deposits; • insured short-term brokered deposits as a percent of total deposits; • purchased funds (including short-term liabilities such as fed funds purchased, repos, FHLB borrowings, and other funds raised in secondary markets) as a percent of total liabilities; • uncollateralized purchased funds as a percent of total liabilities; and • short-term purchased funds to total purchased funds. When computing measures to assess the avail- ability of potential sources of funds under con- tingent liquidity scenarios, institutions may adjust the carrying values of their liabilities in order to develop best estimates of available funding sources. Similar to the haircuts applied when assessing marketable securities and liquid assets, such adjustments endeavor to identify more- realistic rollover rates on current and potential funding sources. Balance between funding needs and sources. Measures used to assess the relationship between 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 44 actual or potential funding needs and funding sources are constructed across a continuum that arrays both the tenor or relative liquidity of assets and the potential volatility or stability of liabilities. Many of these measures use concepts discussed earlier regarding the liquidity of assets and the relative stability or volatility of liabili- ties as funding sources. Some measures express various deﬁnitions of short-term liquid assets to total liabilities or alternative deﬁnitions of vola- tile or stable liabilities to total assets. Such measures may include— • net short-term liabilities (short-term liabilities minus short-term assets) as a percent of total assets; • stable deposits as a percent of total assets; • total purchased funds as a percent of total assets; • uncollateralized borrowings as a percent of total assets; and • liquid assets as a percent of total liabilities. Other measures attempt to identify the relationships between different classiﬁcations of liquid or illiquid assets and stable or volatile liabilities. Exhibit 6 provides a conceptual schematic of the range of relationships that are often addressed in such assessments. Some commonly used summary liquidity mea- sures and ratios focus on the amount of different types of liquid assets that are funded by various types of short-term and potentially volatile lia- bilities (upper-left quadrant of exhibit 6). One of the most common measures of this type is the ‘‘net short-term position’’ (used by some NRS- ROs). Liquidity managers, bank supervisors, and rating agencies use this measure to assess an institution’s ability to meet its potential cash obligations over a speciﬁed period of time. It is computed as an institution’s liquid assets (incor- porating appropriate haircuts on marketable assets) minus the potential cash obligations expected over the speciﬁed time period (e.g., 3 months, 6 months, or 1 year). Other measures used to assess the relationship or coverage of potentially volatile liabilities by liquid assets include— • short-term investments (deﬁned as invest- ments maturing within a speciﬁed time period, such as 3 months, 6 months, or 1 year) as a percent of short-term and potentially volatile liabilities; and • short-term investments (deﬁned as invest- ments maturing within a speciﬁed time period, such as 3 months, 6 months, or 1 year) as a percent of short-term liabilities (deﬁned as liabilities maturing within a speciﬁed time period, such as 3 months, 6 months, or 1 year). Other summary liquidity measures take a more expansive approach to assessing the continuum of liquid assets and volatile liabilities by including more items or expanding the breadth of analysis. Such measures include— • liquid assets (deﬁned as a combination of short-term assets, marketable securities, and securitizable and pledgable assets—ensuring that any pledged assets are not double- counted—over a certain speciﬁed time frame) as a percent of liabilities judged to be volatile (over the same time period); • liquidity-surplus measures, such as liquid assets minus short-dated or volatile liabilities; and • liquid assets as a percent of purchased funds. Other common summary measures of liquid- ity focus on the potential mismatch of using short-term or potentially volatile liabilities to fund illiquid assets (upper-right-hand quadrant of exhibit 6). Often these measures factor only those volatile liabilities in excess of short-term and highly liquid assets or marketable invest- ment securities into this assessment. Such volatile-liability-dependence measures provide insights as to the extent to which alternative funding sources might be needed to fund long- term liquidity needs under adverse liquidity conditions. These measures include— • net short-term noncore-funding-dependence measures, such as short-term volatile funding minus short-term investments as a percent of illiquid assets; and • net volatile-funding-dependence measures, such as volatile funding minus liquid assets as a percent of illiquid assets. Another set of summary liquidity ratios can be constructed to focus on the extent to which illiquid assets are match-funded by stable liabili- ties (lower-right quadrant of exhibit 6). Com- mon examples of such measures include tradi- tional loan-to-deposit ratios (which incorrectly assume all deposits are stable) and loan-to-core- Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 45 deposit ratios (which often take a product- speciﬁc approach to deﬁning the stability of certain types of deposits). However, since such traditional measures necessarily require the use of broad assumptions on the stability of depos- its, they should not be relied on to provide meaningful insights regarding potential funding mismatches between stable funding sources and illiquid assets. One meaningful measure used to gauge such relationships is the concept of “net cash capital” (which is also used by some NRSROs). This measure is the dollar amount by which stable sources of funds exceed illiquid assets; it can be computed as a percent of total assets to facilitate comparisons across institutions. In addition, it can be computed using customized assessments of the relative stability of different types of liabilities and the ability to convert assets into cash through sale, securitization, or collateral- ization. For example, ﬁrms may choose to exclude portions of loans sold regularly (e.g., loans conforming to secondary-market stan- dards) as illiquid assets, or they may choose to include long-term debt as stable liabilities. A ﬁnal set of summary measures are used by liquidity managers to optimize the liquidity proﬁles of their institutions. These measures assess the extent to which relatively stable funding sources are used to fund short-term and liquid assets (lower-left quadrant of exhibit 6). Since short-term liquid assets generally entail relatively lower returns than longer-term less- liquid assets, measures assessing such potential mismatches focus liquidity managers on the cost of carrying liquid assets. V . Liquidity-Measurement Considerations for Bank Holding Companies Liquidity-risk measurement considerations for BHCs can be found in the Bank Holding Com- pany Supervision Manual, sections 4000.1, 4010, and 4020. APPENDIX 2—SUMMARY OF MAJOR LEGAL AND REGULA TORY CONSIDERA TIONS The following discussions summarize some of the major legal and regulatory considerations that should be taken into account in managing the liquidity risk of banking organizations. The discussions are presented only to highlight Exhibit 6—Relationships Between Liquid or Illiquid Assets and Stable or Volatile Liabilities Liquid Asset Coverage of V olatile Liabilities Matching of Illiquid Assets with Stable Liabilities Liquid Assets Funded by Stable Liabilities Illiquid Assets Funded by V olatile Liabilities Liabilities V olatile Stable Asset Liquidity/Marketability/Maturity Liquid Illiquid 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2010 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 46 potential issues and to direct bankers and supervisors to source documents on those issues. A. Federal Reserve Regulation A Federal Reserve Regulation A addresses bor- rowing from the discount window. Rules deﬁn- ing eligible collateral can be found in this regulation. B. Federal Reserve Regulation D Federal Reserve Regulation D addresses required reserves for deposits. One portion of the regu- lation, however, restricts the type of eligible collateral that can be pledged for repurchase- agreement borrowings. C. Federal Reserve Regulation F Federal Reserve Regulation F imposes limits on interbank liabilities. This regulation implements section 308 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA). Banks that sell funds to other banks must have written policies to limit excessive exposure, must review the ﬁnancial condition or credit rating of the debtor, must have internal limits on the size of exposures that are consistent with the credit risk, may not lend more than 25 percent of their capital to a single borrowing bank, and must undertake other steps. Banks that borrow federal funds or other borrowings from correspondent banks may ﬁnd, as a result of the seller’s compliance with Regulation F, that the amount they may borrow has suddenly declined as a result of a reduction in their credit rating or credit quality. Regulation F may make it harder for a bank to use borrow- ings as a liquidity source for a bank-speciﬁc liquidity crisis. D. Federal Reserve Regulation W Federal Reserve Regulation W governs transac- tions between an insured bank or thrift and its afﬁliates. The regulation establishes a consistent and comprehensive compilation of requirements found in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, 70 years of Board interpretations of sec- tion 23A, section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, and portions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. Covered transactions include pur- chases of assets from an afﬁliate, extensions of credit to an afﬁliate, investments in securities issued by an afﬁliate, guarantees on behalf of an afﬁliate, and certain other transactions that expose the member bank to an afﬁliate’s credit or investment risk. Derivatives transactions and intraday extensions of credit are also covered. The intentions of the regulation are (1) to protect the depository institution, (2) to ensure that all transactions between the bank and its afﬁliates are on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking prac- tices, and (3) to limit the ability of a depository institution to transfer to its afﬁliates the subsidy arising from the institution’s access to the fed- eral safety net. The regulation achieves these goals in four major ways: 1. It limits a member bank’s covered transac- tions with any single afﬁliate to no more than 10 percent of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, and limits transactions with all afﬁli- ates combined to no more than 20 percent of the bank’s capital stock and surplus. 2. It requires all transactions between a member bank and its afﬁliates to be on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices. 3. It prohibits a member bank from purchasing low-quality assets from its afﬁliates. 4. It requires that a member bank’s extensions of credit to afﬁliates and guarantees on behalf of afﬁliates be appropriately secured by a statutorily deﬁned amount of collateral. Section 23B protects member banks by requiring that certain transactions between the bank and its afﬁliates occur on market terms, that is, on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same, or at least as favor- able to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unafﬁliated companies. Section 23B applies the market- terms restriction to any covered transaction (as deﬁned in section 23A) with an afﬁliate as well as certain other transactions, such as (1) any sale of assets by the member bank to an afﬁliate, (2) any payment of money or furnishing of services by the member bank to an afﬁliate, and (3) any transaction by the member bank with a Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2010 Page 47 third party if an afﬁliate has a ﬁnancial interest in the third party or if an afﬁliate is a participant in the transaction. Liquidity-risk managers working in banks that have afﬁliates must give careful attention to Regulation W, which addresses transactions between banks and their afﬁliates. In the normal course of business, the prohibition on unsecured funding can tie up collateral, complicate collat- eral management, and restrict the availability of funding from afﬁliates. In stressed conditions, all of those problems—plus the size limit and the prohibition on sales of low-quality assets to afﬁliates—effectively close down many transac- tions with afﬁliates. E. Statutory Restriction of FHLB Advances The Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) pro- vide a number of different advance programs with very attractive terms to member banks. Many banks now use the FHLBs for term funding. The FHLBs are very credit-sensitive lenders. A federal regulation (12 CFR 935, Federal Housing Finance Board—Advances) requires the FHLBs to be credit-sensitive. In addition to monitoring the general ﬁnancial condition of commercial banks and using rating informa- tion provided by bank rating agencies, the FHLBs have access to nonpublic regulatory information and supervisory actions taken against banks. The FHLBs often react quickly, sometimes before other funds providers, to reduce exposure to a troubled bank by not roll- ing over unsecured borrowing lines. Depend- ing on the severity of a troubled bank’s condi- tion, even the collateralized funding program may be discontinued or withdrawn at maturity because of concerns about the quality or relia- bility of the collateral or other credit-related concerns. Contractual provisions requiring increases in collateral may also be invoked. Any of these changes in FHLB-loan availability or terms can create signiﬁcant liquidity problems, especially in banks that use large amounts of short-term FHLB funding. F. Statutory Restriction on the Use of Brokered Deposits The use of brokered deposits is restricted by 12 CFR 337.6. Well-capitalized banks may accept brokered deposits without restriction. Adequately capitalized banks must obtain a waiver from the FDIC to solicit, renew, or roll over brokered deposits. Adequately capitalized banks must also comply with restrictions on the rates that they pay for these deposits. Banks that have capital levels below adequately capitalized are prohibited from using brokered deposits. In addition to these restrictions, banking regulators have also issued detailed guidance, discussed in section H below, on the use of brokered deposits. G. Legal Restrictions on Dividends A number of statutory restrictions limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its stockholders. As a result, a bank holding com- pany that depends on cash from its bank sub- sidiaries can ﬁnd this source of funds limited or closed. This risk is particularly signiﬁcant for bank holding companies with nonbank sub- sidiaries that require funding or debt service. H. Restrictions on Investments That Affect Liquidity-Risk Management Interagency guidance issued in 1998 by the FFIEC, ‘‘Supervisory Policy Statement on Invest- ment Securities and End-User Activities,’’ con- tains provisions that may affect liquidity and liquidity management. (See SR-98-12.) The fol- lowing points summarize some of these poten- tial impacts, although readers should review the entire rule for more-complete information. 1. When banks specify permissible instruments for accomplishing established objectives, they must take into account the liquidity of the market for those investments and the effect that liquidity may have on achieving their objective. 2. Banks are required to consider the effects that market risk can have on the liquidity of different types of instruments under various scenarios. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2016 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 48 3. Banks are required to clearly articulate the liquidity characteristics of the instru- ments they use to accomplish institutional objectives. In addition, the policy statement speciﬁcally highlights the greater liquidity risk inherent in complex and less actively traded instruments. APPENDIX 3—INTERAGENCY GUIDANCE ON FUNDS TRANSFER PRICING RELA TED TO FUNDING AND CONTINGENT LIQUIDITY RISKS The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Ofﬁce of the Comp- troller of the Currency (OCC) issued this guid- ance on funds transfer pricing (FTP) practices related to funding risk (including interest rate and liquidity components) and contingent liquid- ity risk at large ﬁnancial institutions (hereafter referred to as “ﬁrms”) to address weaknesses observed in some ﬁrms’ FTP practices. 11 The guidance builds on the principles of sound liquidity risk management described in the “Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management,” 12 and incorpo- rates elements of the international statement issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision titled “Principles for Sound Liquid- ity Risk Management and Supervision.” 13 For purposes of this guidance, FTP refers to a process performed by a ﬁrm’s central manage- ment function that allocates costs and beneﬁts associated with funding and contingent liquidity risks (FTP costs and beneﬁts), as measured at transaction or trade inception, to a ﬁrm’s busi- ness lines, products, and activities. While this guidance speciﬁcally addresses FTP practices related to funding and contingent liquidity risks, ﬁrms may incorporate other risks in their overall FTP frameworks. FTP is an important tool for managing a ﬁrm’s balance sheet structure and measuring risk-adjusted proﬁtability. By allocating funding and contingent liquidity risks to business lines, products, and activities within a ﬁrm, FTP inﬂuences the volume and terms of new busi- ness and ongoing portfolio composition. This process helps align a ﬁrm’s funding and contin- gent liquidity risk proﬁle and risk appetite and complements, but does not replace, broader liquidity and interest rate risk-management pro- grams (for example, stress testing) that a ﬁrm uses to capture certain risks (for example, basis risk). If done effectively, FTP promotes more resilient, sustainable business models. FTP is also an important tool for centralizing the man- agement of funding and contingent liquidity risks for all exposures. Through FTP , a ﬁrm can transfer these risks to a central management function that can take advantage of natural offsets, centralized hedging activities, and a broader view of the ﬁrm. Failure to consistently and effectively apply FTP can misalign the risk-taking incentives of individual business lines with the ﬁrm’s risk appetite, resulting in a misallocation of ﬁnancial resources. This misallocation can arise in new business and ongoing portfolio composition where the business metrics do not reﬂect risks taken, thereby undermining the business model. Examples include entering into excessive off- balance sheet commitments and on-balance sheet asset growth because of mispriced funding and contingent liquidity risks. The 2008 ﬁnancial crisis exposed weak risk- management practices for allocating liquidity costs and beneﬁts across business lines. Several ﬁrms “acknowledged that if robust FTP prac- tices had been in place earlier, and if the systems had charged not just for funding but for liquidity risks, they would not have carried the signiﬁcant levels of illiquid assets and the signiﬁcant risks that were held off-balance sheet that ultimately led to sizable losses.” 14 Refer to SR-16-3. 11. For purposes of this guidance, large ﬁnancial institu- tions includes national banks, federal savings associations and state-chartered banks with consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, domestic bank and savings and loan holding com- panies with consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or foreign exposure of $10 billion or more, and foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $250 billion or more. 12. Refer to FRB’s SR-10-6, “Interagency Policy State- ment on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management”; FDIC’s FIL-13-2010, “Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Inter- agency Guidance”; and OCC Bulletin 2010-13, “Final Policy Statement: Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Management.” 13. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision state- ment on “Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision” (September 2008) is available at www.bis.org/ publ/bcbs144.htm. 14. Senior Supervisors Group report on “Risk Management Lessons from the Global Financial Crisis of 2008” (Octo- ber 21, 2009) is available at www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/ Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2016 Page 49 Funds Transfer Pricing Principles A ﬁrm should have an FTP framework to support its broader risk-management and gover- nance processes that incorporates the general principles described in this section and is com- mensurate with its size, complexity, business activities, and overall risk proﬁle. The frame- work should incorporate FTP costs and beneﬁts into product pricing, business metrics, and new product approval for all material business lines, products, and activities to align risk-taking incen- tives with the ﬁrm’s risk appetite. Principle 1: A ﬁrm should allocate FTP costs and beneﬁts based on funding risk and contingent liquidity risk. A ﬁrm should have an FTP framework that allocates costs and beneﬁts based on the follow- ing risks. • Funding risk, measured as the cost or beneﬁt (including liquidity and interest rate compo- nents) of raising funds to ﬁnance ongoing business operations, should be allocated based on the characteristics of the business lines, products, and activities that give rise to those costs or beneﬁts (for example, higher costs allocated to assets that will be held over a longer time horizon and greater beneﬁts allo- cated to stable sources of funding). • Contingent liquidity risk, measured as the cost of holding standby liquidity composed of unencumbered, highly liquid assets, should be allocated to the business lines, products, and activities that pose risk of contingent funding needs during a stress event (for example, draws on credit commitments, collateral calls, deposit run-off, and increasing haircuts on secured funding). Principle 2: A ﬁrm should have a consistent and transparent FTP framework for identifying and allocating FTP costs and beneﬁts on a timely basis and at a sufﬁciently granular level, commensurate with the ﬁrm’ s size, complexity, business activities, and overall risk proﬁle. FTP costs and beneﬁts should be allocated based on methodologies that are set forth by a ﬁrm’s FTP framework. The methodologies should be transparent, repeatable, and sufﬁciently granular such that they align business decisions with the ﬁrm’s desired funding and contingent liquidity risk appetite. To the extent a ﬁrm applies FTP at an aggregated level to similar products and activities, the ﬁrm should include the aggregat- ing criteria in the report on FTP . 15 Additionally, the senior management group that oversees FTP should review the basis for the FTP methodolo- gies. The attachment to this interagency guid- ance describes illustrative FTP methodologies that a ﬁrm may consider when implementing its FTP framework. 16 A ﬁrm should allocate FTP costs and beneﬁts, as measured at transaction or trade inception, to the appropriate business line, product, or activ- ity. If a ﬁrm retains any FTP costs or beneﬁts in a centrally managed pool pursuant to its FTP framework, it should analyze the implications of such decisions on business line incentives and the ﬁrm’s overall risk proﬁle. The ﬁrm custom- arily would include its ﬁndings in the report on FTP . The FTP framework should be implemented consistently across the ﬁrm to appropriately align risk-taking incentives. While it is possible to apply different FTP methodologies within a ﬁrm due to, among other things, legal entity type or speciﬁc jurisdictional circumstances, a ﬁrm should generally implement the FTP framework in a consistent manner across its corporate structure to reduce the likelihood of misaligned incentives. If there are implementation differ- ences across the ﬁrm, management should ana- lyze the implications of such differences on business line incentives and the ﬁrm’s overall funding and contingent liquidity risk proﬁle. media/newsevents/news/banking/2009/SSG_report.pdf. 15. See Principle 3 for a discussion of the report on FTP . 16. The FRB, the FDIC, and the OCC will monitor evolving FTP practices in the market and may update or add to the illustrative methodologies in the interagency guidance attachment. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2016 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 50 The ﬁrm customarily would include its ﬁndings in the report on FTP . A ﬁrm should allocate, report, and update data on FTP costs and beneﬁts at a frequency that is appropriate for the business line, product, or activity. Allocating, reporting, and updating of data should occur more frequently for trading exposures (for example, on a daily basis). Infre- quent allocation, reporting, or updating of data for trading exposures (for example, based on month-end positions) may not fully capture a ﬁrm’s day-to-day funding and contingent liquid- ity risks. For example, a ﬁrm should monitor the age of its trading exposures, and those held longer than originally intended should be reas- sessed and FTP costs and beneﬁts should be reallocated based on the modiﬁed holding period. A ﬁrm’s FTP framework should address derivative activities commensurate with the size and complexity of those activities. The FTP framework may consider the fair value of cur- rent positions, the rights of rehypothecation for collateral received, and contingent outﬂows that may occur during a stress event. To avoid a misalignment of risk-taking incen- tives, a ﬁrm should adjust its FTP costs and beneﬁts as appropriate based on both market- wide and idiosyncratic conditions, such as trapped liquidity, reserve requirements, regula- tory requirements, illiquid currencies, and settle- ment or clearing costs. These idiosyncratic con- ditions should be contemplated in the FTP framework, and the ﬁrm customarily would include a discussion of the implications in the report on FTP . Principle 3: A ﬁrm should have a robust governance structure for FTP , including the production of a report on FTP and oversight from a senior management group and central management function. A ﬁrm should have a senior management group that oversees FTP , which should include a broad range of stakeholders, such as representatives from the ﬁrm’s asset-liability committee (if separate from the senior management group), the treasury function, and business line and risk management functions. This group should de- velop the policy underlying the FTP framework, which should identify assumptions, responsibili- ties, procedures, and authorities for FTP . The policy should be reviewed and updated on a regular basis or when the ﬁrm’s asset-liability structure or scope of activities undergoes a material change. Further, senior management with oversight responsibility for FTP should periodically, but no less frequently than quar- terly, review the report on FTP to ensure that the established FTP framework is being properly implemented. A ﬁrm should also establish a central man- agement function tasked with implementing the FTP framework. The central management func- tion should have visibility over the entire ﬁrm’s on- and off-balance sheet exposures. Among its responsibilities, the central management func- tion should regularly produce and analyze a report on FTP generated from accurate and reliable management information systems. The report on FTP should be at a sufﬁciently granu- lar level to enable the senior management group and central management function to effectively monitor the FTP framework (for example, at the business line, product, or activity level, as appro- priate). Among other items, all material approv- als, such as those related to any exception to the FTP framework, including the reason for the exception, would customarily be documented in the report on FTP . The report on FTP may be standalone or included within a broader risk- management report. Independent risk and control functions and internal audit should provide oversight of the FTP process and assess the report on FTP , which should be reviewed as appropriate to reﬂect changing business and ﬁnancial market condi- tions and to maintain the appropriate alignment of incentives. Lastly, consistent with existing supervisory guidance on model risk manage- ment, 17 models used in FTP implementation should be independently validated and regularly reviewed to ensure that the models continue to perform as expected, that all assumptions remain appropriate, and that limitations are understood and appropriately mitigated. 17. Refer to FRB’s SR-11-7, “Guidance on Model Risk Management” and OCC Bulletin 2011-12, “Supervisory Guid- ance on Model Risk Management.” Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2016 Page 51 Principle 4: A ﬁrm should align business incentives with risk-management and strategic objectives by incorporating FTP costs and beneﬁts into product pricing, business metrics, and new product approval. Through its FTP framework, a ﬁrm should incorporate FTP costs and beneﬁts into product pricing, business metrics, and new product approval for all material business lines, prod- ucts, and activities (both on- and off-balance sheet). The framework, the report on FTP , and any associated management information sys- tems should be designed to provide decision makers sufﬁcient and timely information about FTP costs and beneﬁts so that risk-taking incen- tives align with the ﬁrm’s strategic objectives. The information may be either at the transac- tion level or, if the transactions have homog- enous funding and contingent liquidity risk char- acteristics, at an aggregated level. In deciding whether to allocate FTP costs and beneﬁts at the transaction or aggregated level, ﬁrms should consider advantages and disadvantages of both approaches when developing the FTP frame- work. Although transaction-level FTP alloca- tions may add complexity and involve higher implementation and maintenance costs, such allocations may provide a more accurate mea- sure of risk-adjusted proﬁtability. A ﬁrm assign- ing FTP allocations at an aggregated level should have aggregation criteria based on funding and contingent liquidity risk characteristics that are transparent. There should be ongoing dialogue between the business lines and the central function respon- sible for allocating FTP costs and beneﬁts to ensure that funding and contingent liquidity risks are being captured and are well-understood for product pricing, business metrics, and new product approval. The business lines should understand the rationale for the FTP costs and beneﬁts, and the central function should under- stand the funding and contingent liquidity risks implicated by the business lines’ transactions. Decisions by senior management to incentivize certain behaviors through FTP costs and beneﬁts customarily would be documented and included in the report on FTP . Conclusion A ﬁrm should use the principles laid out in this guidance to develop, implement, and maintain an effective FTP framework. In doing so, a ﬁrm’s risk-taking incentives should better align with its risk-management and strategic objec- tives. The framework should be adequately tailored to a ﬁrm’s size, complexity, business activities, and overall risk proﬁle. Interagency Guidance Attachment Illustrative Funds Transfer Pricing Methodologies March 1, 2016 The FTP methodologies described below are intended for illustrative purposes only and pro- vide examples for addressing principles set forth in the guidance. A ﬁrm’s FTP framework should be commensurate with its size, complexity, busi- ness activities, and overall risk proﬁle. In design- ing its FTP framework, a ﬁrm may utilize other methodologies that are consistent with the prin- ciples set forth in the guidance. Therefore, these illustrative methodologies should not be inter- preted as directives for implementing any par- ticular FTP methodology. Non-Trading Exposures For non-trading exposures, a ﬁrm’s FTP meth- odology may vary based on its business activi- ties and speciﬁc exposures. For example, certain ﬁrms may have higher concentrations of expo- sures that have less predictable time horizons, such as non-maturity loans and non-maturity deposits. Matched-Maturity Marginal Cost of Funding Matched-maturity marginal cost of funding is a commonly used methodology for non-trading exposures. Under this methodology, FTP costs and beneﬁts are based on a ﬁrm’s market cost of funds across the term structure (for example, wholesale long-term debt curve adjusted based on the composition of the ﬁrm’s alternate sources of funding such as Federal Home Loan Bank 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2016 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 52 advances and customer deposits). This method- ology incentivizes business lines to generate stable funding (for example, core deposits) by crediting them the beneﬁt or premium associ- ated with such funding. It also ensures that business lines are appropriately charged the cost of funding for the life of longer-dated assets (for example, a ﬁve-year commercial loan). Given that funding costs can change over time, the market cost of funds across the term structure should be derived from reliable and readily available data sources and be well understood by FTP users. FTP rates should, as closely as possible, match the characteristics of the transaction or the aggregated transactions to which they are applied. In determining the appropriate point on the derived FTP curve for a transaction or pool of transactions, a ﬁrm could consider a variety of characteristics, including the holding period, cash ﬂow, re-pricing, prepayments, and expected life of the transaction or pool. For example, for a ﬁve-year commercial loan that has a rate that resets every three months and will be held to maturity, the interest rate component of the funding risk could be based on a three-month horizon for determining the FTP cost, and the liquidity component of the funding risk could be based on a ﬁve-year horizon for determining the FTP cost. Thus, the total FTP cost for holding the ﬁve-year commercial loan would be the combination of these two components. Contingent Liquidity Risk A ﬁrm may calculate the FTP cost related to non-trading exposure contingent liquidity risk using models based on behavioral assumptions. For example, charges for contingent commit- ments could be based on their modeled likeli- hood of drawdown, considering customer draw- down history, credit quality, and other factors; whereas, credits applied to deposits could be based on volatility and modeled behavioral matu- rity. A ﬁrm should document and include all modeling analyses and assumptions in the report on FTP . If behavioral assumptions used in a ﬁrm’s FTP framework do not align with behav- ioral assumptions used in its internal stress test for similar types of non-trading exposures, the ﬁrm should document and include in the report on FTP these inconsistencies. Trading Exposures For trading exposures, a ﬁrm could consider a variety of factors, including the type of funding source (for example, secured or unsecured), the market liquidity of the exposure (for example, the size of the haircut relative to the overall exposure), the holding period of the position, the prevailing market conditions, and any potential impact the chosen approach could have on ﬁrm incentives and overall risk proﬁle. If a ﬁrm’s trading activities are not material, its FTP frame- work may require a less complex methodology for trading exposures. The following FTP meth- odologies have been observed for allocating FTP costs for trading exposures. Weighted Average Cost of Debt (WACD) W ACD is the weighted average cost of outstand- ing ﬁrm debt, usually expressed as a spread over an index. Some ﬁrms’ practices apply this rate to the amount of an asset expected to be funded unsecured (repurchase agreement market hair- cuts may be used to delineate between the amount being funded secured and the amount being funded unsecured). A ﬁrm using W ACD should analyze whether the methodology mis- aligns risk-taking incentives and document such analyses in the report on FTP . Marginal Cost of Funding Marginal cost of funding sets the FTP costs at the appropriate incremental borrowing rate of a ﬁrm. Some ﬁrms’ practices apply a marginal secured borrowing rate to the amount of an asset expected to be funded secured and a marginal unsecured borrowing rate to the amount of an asset expected to be funded unsecured (repur- chase agreement market haircuts may be used to delineate between the amount being funded secured and the amount being funded unse- cured). A ﬁrm using marginal cost of funding should analyze whether the methodology mis- aligns risk-taking incentives, considering current market rates compared to historical rates, and document such analyses in the report on FTP . Liquidity Risk 3200.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2016 Page 53 Contingent Liquidity Risk A ﬁrm may calculate the FTP costs related to contingent liquidity risk from trading exposures by considering the unencumbered liquid assets that are held to cover the potential for widening haircuts of trading exposures that are funded secured. If haircuts used in a ﬁrm’s FTP frame- work do not align with haircuts used in its internal stress test for similar types of trading exposures, the ﬁrm should document and include in the report on FTP these inconsistencies. Haircuts should be updated at a frequency that is appropriate for a ﬁrm’s trading activities and market conditions. A ﬁrm may also include the FTP costs related to contingent liquidity risk from potential deriva- tive outﬂows in stressed market conditions, which may be due to, for example, credit rating downgrades, additional termination rights, or market shocks and volatility. 3200.1 Liquidity Risk October 2016 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 54 Liquidity Risk Examination Procedures Effective date May 2022 Section 3200.3 Examination procedures are available on the Examination Documentation (ED) modules page on the Board’s website. See the following ED module for examination procedures on this topic: • Liquidity Commercial Bank Examination Manual May 2022 Page 1 The Discount Window and Liquidity Risk Management Effective date October 2023 Section 3210.1 DISCOUNT WINDOW OVERVIEW Federal Reserve lending to depository institu- tions (referred to as the “discount window”) plays an important role in supporting the liquid- ity and stability of the U.S. banking system and the effective implementation of monetary pol- icy. 1 By providing ready access to funding, the discount window helps depository institutions manage their liquidity risks efﬁciently and avoid actions that have negative consequences for their customers, such as withdrawing credit during times of market stress. Thus, the discount window supports the smooth ﬂow of credit to households and businesses. Providing liquidity in this way is one of the original purposes of the Federal Reserve System and other central banks around the world. The Board’s Regulation A (12 CFR pt. 201) governs the discount window. Under Regulation A, three credit programs are available to deposi- tory institutions: 1. Primary credit, 2. Secondary credit, and 3. Seasonal credit Each credit program has its own interest rate (“discount rate”). Rates are established by each Reserve Bank’s board of directors, subject to the review and determination of the Board of Gov- ernors of the Federal Reserve System. The rates for each of the three lending programs are the same across all Reserve Banks. Depository institutions must have collateral available to pledge and meet certain eligibility criteria for primary credit at the discount win- dow. The following assets are most commonly pledged to secure discount window advances: • commercial, industrial, or agricultural loans • consumer loans • residential and commercial real estate loans • corporate bonds and money market instru- ments • obligations of U.S. government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises • asset-backed securities • collateralized mortgage obligations • U.S. Treasury obligations • state or political subdivision obligations A Reserve Bank is not obligated to extend credit to any depository institution but may lend to a depository institution by making an advance secured by acceptable collateral as described in the Federal Reserve Act. Before lending to a depository institution, a Reserve Bank can require any information it believes is appropri- ate to ensure that the assets tendered as collat- eral are acceptable. To access the discount window, depository institutions must deliver the necessary lending agreements and corporate resolutions under the terms set forth in the Federal Reserve’s lending agreement. Operating Circular No. 10, “Lend- ing,” issued by each Reserve Bank, establishes the credit and security terms for borrowings from the Federal Reserve. 2 DISCLOSURES The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Con- sumer Protection Act, 3 which amended the Fed- eral Reserve Act, requires the Federal Reserve to disclose certain discount window lending information. Effective for discount window loans (primary, secondary, and seasonal credit) extended on or after July 21, 2010, the Federal Reserve publicly discloses the following infor- mation, generally about two years after a dis- count window loan is extended to a depository institution: • the name and identifying details of the deposi- tory institution; • the amount borrowed by the depository insti- tution; • the interest rate paid by the depository insti- tution; and • information identifying the types and amounts of collateral pledged in connection with any discount window loan. This disclosure require- ment does not apply to collateral pledged by depository institutions that do not borrow. 1. For more information, see the Board’s website and the discount window website . 2. For more information on the Federal Reserve’s Operat- ing Circulars, see FRBservices.org. 3. Pub. L. No. 111-203. Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2023 Page 1 The purpose of these disclosures is to pro- mote public transparency, accountability, and legitimacy in the discount window process. PRIMARY CREDIT, SECONDARY CREDIT, AND SEASONAL CREDIT Primary Credit The Federal Reserve’s primary credit program offers depository institutions an additional source of available funds (at a rate above the target federal funds rate) for managing short-term liquidity risks. 4 Advances under primary credit may be made for a term of up to 90 days. Historically, advances under primary credit have been for very short terms, usually overnight. Primary credit is the principal safety valve for ensuring adequate liquidity in the banking sys- tem. There are no restrictions on borrowers’ use of primary credit. Depository institutions that are in “generally sound ﬁnancial condition in the judgment of the Reserve Bank” are eligible for primary credit. 5 Sound ﬁnancial condition typically means the depository institution has a CAMELS composite rating of “1,” “2,” or “3” and is adequately or well capitalized per prompt corrective action statutes (see table 1). Table 1. General eligibility criteria for primary or secondary credit Examination Rating (CAMELS or equivalent) Capital Designation Generally Eligible For 1, 2, or 3 Adequately or well capitalized Primary Credit 4 or 5 Any Secondary Credit Any Less than Adequately Capitalized Secondary Credit Secondary Credit Secondary credit is available to institutions that do not qualify for primary credit. Secondary credit is available as a backup source of liquidity on a very short-term basis, if, in the judgment of the Reserve Bank, the loan is consistent with the institution’s timely return to a reliance on mar- ket sources of funds. If necessary for the orderly resolution of serious ﬁnancial difﬁculties of an institution, a Reserve Bank may extend longer- term secondary credit. Any discount window loan, including a longer-term secondary credit loan, would have to comply with requirements for lending to undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized institutions. For more informa- tion, see the subsection below titled, “ Lending to Undercapitalized and Critically Undercapital- ized Depository Institutions. ” Secondary credit may not be used to fund an expansion of the institution’s assets. Compared with the primary credit program, the secondary credit program entails a higher level of Reserve Bank adminis- tration and oversight. Reserve Banks will collect information to conﬁrm the borrowing is consis- tent with the objectives of the program. Second- ary credit is available at a rate above the primary credit rate. Seasonal Credit Under the seasonal lending program, a deposi- tory institution may qualify for funding for up to nine months during the calendar year, to meet seasonal borrowing needs of the communities it serves. The seasonal lending program is for institutions with demonstrated liquidity pres- sures of a seasonal nature and will not normally be available to institutions with deposits of $500 million or more. Institutions that experience ﬂuctuations in deposits and loans—caused by construction, college, farming, resort, municipal ﬁnancing, and other seasonal types of business— frequently qualify for the seasonal lending pro- gram. The interest rate charged on seasonal credit loans is a ﬂoating market rate comprised of the average of the federal funds rate and the rate on three-month certiﬁcate of deposits rounded to the nearest ﬁve basis points. The rate for seasonal credit can be lower than the rate applied to primary credit. Furthermore, the inter- est rate is reset every two weeks and applies to all outstanding seasonal credit loans. 4. See the Board’s Regulation A (12 CFR pt. 201) for additional information on the Federal Reserve’s credit pro- grams that are available to qualifying institutions. 5. 12 CFR 201.4(a). 3210.1 The Discount Window and Liquidity Risk Management October 2023 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 LENDING TO UNDER- CAPITALIZED AND CRITICALL Y UNDERCAPITALIZED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS Credit from any Reserve Bank to an “undercapi- talized” institution may be extended or outstand- ing for no more than 60 days during any 120-day period in which the institution is under- capitalized. 6 An institution is considered under- capitalized if it is not critically undercapitalized under section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insur- ance Act (the FDI Act) but is either deemed undercapitalized under that provision and its implementing regulations or has received a com- posite CAMELS rating of “5” as of the most recent examination. A Reserve Bank may make or have outstanding advances or discounts to an institution that is deemed “critically undercapi- talized” under section 38 of the FDI Act, and its implementing regulations, only during the ﬁve- day period beginning on the date the institution became critically undercapitalized or after con- sultation with the Board. CONTINGENCY FUNDING AND THE FEDERAL RESERVE DISCOUNT WINDOW As described in this manual’s section on Liquid- ity Risk, a contingency funding plan provides a plan for responding to a liquidity crisis; identi- ﬁes a menu of contingent liquidity sources that the institution can use under adverse liquidity circumstances; and describe steps that should be taken to ensure that the institution’s sources of liquidity are sufﬁcient to fund scheduled oper- ating requirements and meet the institution’s commitments with minimal costs and disrup- tion. The Federal Reserve and other federal banking agencies encourage depository institu- tions to incorporate the discount window as part of their contingency funding plans. The follow- ing attributes make the primary credit program a viable source of backup or contingency funding at institutions for the short-term: • Primary credit provides an accessible source of backup, short-term funding. • Primary credit can enhance diversiﬁcation in short-term funding sources that are part of contingency funding plans. • Borrowings can be secured with an array of collateral, including consumer and commer- cial loans, in addition to many classes of ﬁxed income securities and commercial paper. • Requests for primary credit advances can be made anytime during the business day. 7 • There are no restrictions on the borrowers’ use of primary credit. If the discount window is a part of a deposi- tory institution’s contingency funding plan, the depository institution should establish and main- tain operational readiness to borrow from the discount window. 8 Operational readiness includes establishing borrowing arrangements with the Reserve Bank and ensuring collateral is avail- able for borrowing in an amount appropriate for a depository institution’s potential contingency funding needs. If an institution incorporates primary credit into its contingency funding plan, management should • ensure that they are familiar with the pledging process for different collateral types and be aware that pre-pledging collateral can be use- ful if liquidity needs arise quickly; • consider regularly testing the institution’s abil- ity to borrow at the discount window. The goal of such testing is to ensure that there are no unexpected impediments or complications in the case that such contingency lines need to be used. — Depository institutions should consider conducting small value transactions at regular intervals to ensure familiarity with discount window operations. Examination staff will not criticize institutions for test- ing discount window access; • have viable short-term liquidity contingency sources that can replace primary credit at the discount window, if necessary; and 6. Generally, a Reserve Bank also may lend to an under- capitalized institution during 60 calendar days after receipt of a certiﬁcate of viability from the Chair of the Board of Governors or after consultation with the Board. 7. Advances generally are booked at the end of the busi- ness day. 8. For more information, see the Addendum to the Inter- agency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of Contingency Funding Plans (July 28, 2023). The Discount Window and Liquidity Risk Management 3210.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2023 Page 3 • determine the institution’s eligibility for pri- mary credit under various stress scenarios, recognizing that if its ﬁnancial condition were to deteriorate, primary credit may not be available. Under those scenarios, secondary credit may need to be accessed. 3210.1 The Discount Window and Liquidity Risk Management October 2023 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 Borrowed Funds Effective date October 2023 Section 3220.1 INTRODUCTION Borrowed funds are a common and practical method for banks to manage their liquidity needs and to fund their operations. A bank’s borrowings may exist in a number of forms. Sources of bank borrowings can include Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) credit lines, federal funds purchased, loans from correspondent banks, repurchase agreements, and the Federal Reserve discount window. Other borrowings include intraday credit from a Federal Reserve Bank, interest-bearing demand notes issued to the U.S. Treasury (the Treasury tax and loan note option account), mortgages payables, due- bills, and other types of borrowed securities. Borrowings can also include rediscounted cus- tomer paper and assets sold with the bank’s endorsement or guarantee. For the purposes of this section, borrowings exclude long-term sub- ordinated debt, such as capital notes and deben- tures. Reasons a bank may borrow funds include the following: • To meet the temporary or seasonal loan demand or deposit withdrawal needs of its customers. • To meet large and unanticipated deposit with- drawals by its customers that may arise during periods of economic distress. • To manage liabilities effectively. For banks using borrowed funds as one of their sources for ongoing or contingent funding, bank management should • address speciﬁc liquidity risks associated with borrowed funds in the bank’s contingency funding planning; • be aware of the operational steps required to obtain funding from contingency funding sources, including potential counterparties, contact details, and availability of collateral; 1 • as applicable, fully understand the credit poli- cies and standards of the entities lending to the bank; and • estimate the amount of funding that would be available from funds providers under both normal and stress conditions, including if there are changes in the bank’s ﬁnancial condition. Some of the more frequently used sources of borrowings are discussed below. COMMON SOURCES OF BORROWINGS FHLB Borrowings The FHLB system was created by the Federal Home Loan Bank Act as a government- sponsored enterprise to support mortgage lend- ing and related community investment. There are 11 regional FHLBs. The FHLB system originally served solely as a source of borrow- ings to savings and loan companies. With the implementation of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, the FHLBs were permitted to lend to banks as well. The FHLBs are a common funding source for many community and regional banks. The FHLBs provide banks short-term and long-term borrowings, with maturities ranging from over- night to 30 years, at generally competitive interest rates. The ﬂexibility of an FHLB facility enables bank management to use this source of funds for the purpose of asset/liability manage- ment and contingency funding planning. FHLB facilities may allow bank management to secure a favorable interest rate spread. For example, FHLB borrowings may provide a lower-cost alternative to the conventional deposit, particu- larly in a highly competitive local market. Bank management should understand the con- tracts associated with borrowing from an FHLB, including which assets collateralize the borrow- ings and the potential risks presented by the contract. For example, the FHLB borrowing agreement may require a bank to pledge all of its assets to the FHLB that have not already been pledged for other purposes (e.g., pledged as collateral to the Reserve Bank to secure discount window borrowings). Furthermore, a bank with negative tangible common equity could lose access to FHLB funding. Regulations governing the FHLBs’ extensions of credit provide that an 1. See the July 2023, “ Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Impor- tance of Contingency Funding Plans .” Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2023 Page 1 FHLB shall not make new advances to a mem- ber that does not have positive tangible capital unless that member’s appropriate federal bank- ing agency or insurer requests in writing that the FHLB make such advance. 2 Federal Funds Transactions Federal funds transactions involve a bank’s lending (federal funds sold) or borrowing (fed- eral funds purchased) of immediately available funds under agreements or contracts that have an original maturity of one business day or roll over under a continuing contract. Federal funds may take the form of the following two types of transactions: 1. Unsecured loans (federal funds sold) or bor- rowings (federal funds purchased). In some market usage, the term “fed funds” or “pure fed funds” is conﬁned to unsecured loans of immediately available balances. 2. Purchases (sales) of ﬁnancial assets (other than securities) under agreements to resell (repurchase) that have original maturities of one business day (or are under continuing contracts) and are in immediately available funds. Funds lent or borrowed in the form of secu- rities resale or repurchase agreements, due-bills, borrowings from the discount window, deposits with and advances from a FHLB, and overnight loans for commercial and industrial purposes are excluded from federal funds. For federal funds transactions, the rate is usually determined by overall money market rates as well as by the available supply and demand for funds. In some instances, when the selling and buying relationship between two banks is continuous, an effective line of credit may be established on a funds-availability basis. While federal funds transactions commonly are unsecured, the selling of funds can also be secured and can be for a longer period of time. Agency-based federal funds transactions are discussed in section 5230.1, “Bank Dealer Activities.” Loans from Correspondent Banks Small and medium-sized banks often negotiate loans from their principal correspondent banks to meet their funding needs. The loans are usually for a short period of time and may be secured or unsecured. For more information, see section 6006.1, “Regulation F: Correspondent Concentration Risks.” Repurchase Agreements and Associated Risks A repurchase agreement or repo is a transaction involving the sale of ﬁnancial assets by one party to another, subject to an agreement by the seller to repurchase the assets at a speciﬁed date or under speciﬁc circumstances. A reverse repur- chase agreement or reverse repo is a transaction involving the purchase of ﬁnancial assets by one party from another, subject to an agreement by the purchaser to resell the assets at a speciﬁed date or under speciﬁc circumstances. Such trans- actions are referred to as a repo when viewed from the perspective of the supplier of the securities, and a reverse repo or matched sale- purchase agreement when described from the point of view of the supplier of funds. For more information on repurchase agreements, see the instructions to the Call Report. Both parties in a term repo arrangement are exposed to interest rate risk. To mitigate this risk, a common practice is to have the collateral value of the underlying securities adjusted daily to reﬂect changes in market prices and to main- tain the agreed-on margin. Accordingly, if the market value of the repo securities declines appreciably, the borrower may be asked to provide additional collateral. Conversely, if the market value of the securities rises substantially, the lender may be required to return the excess collateral to the borrower. If the value of the underlying securities exceeds the price at which the repurchase agreement was sold, the bank could be exposed to the risk of loss if the buyer is unable to perform and return the securities. Moreover, if the securities are not returned, the bank could be exposed to the possibility of a signiﬁcant write-off, to the extent that the book value of the securities exceeds the price at which the securities were originally sold under the repurchase agreement. For this reason, banks should avoid pledging excessive collateral and 2. 12 CFR 1266.4. 3220.1 Borrowed Funds October 2023 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 obtain sufﬁcient ﬁnancial information on and analyze the ﬁnancial condition of those institu- tions and brokers with whom they engage in repurchase transactions. Repurchase agreements are in many respects economically equivalent to short-term borrow- ings at market rates of interest. Therefore, banks engaging in repurchase agreements should care- fully evaluate their interest-rate-risk exposure at various maturity levels, formulate policy objec- tives in light of the institution’s entire asset and liability mix, and adopt procedures to control mismatches between assets and liabilities. The degree to which a bank borrows through repur- chase agreements also should be analyzed with respect to its liquidity needs, and contingency funding plans should outline alternative funding sources. Borrowings from the Federal Reserve Federal Reserve lending to depository institu- tions (referred to as the “discount window”) plays an important role in supporting the liquid- ity and stability of the banking system and the effective implementation of monetary policy. By providing ready access to funding, the discount window helps depository institutions manage their liquidity risks efﬁciently and avoid actions that have negative consequences for their cus- tomers, such as withdrawing credit during times of market stress. Thus, the discount window supports the smooth ﬂow of credit to households and businesses. Three types of credit are available from the Federal Reserve Banks: primary credit, second- ary credit, and seasonal credit, each with its own interest rate. For more information about the discount widow, see section 3210.1, “The Dis- count Window and Liquidity Risk Manage- ment.” The Federal Reserve also has an important role in providing intraday balances and credit to foster the smooth functioning of the overall payment system. Federal Reserve Banks pro- vide intraday credit (also known as daylight overdrafts) to eligible depository institutions with accounts at a Federal Reserve Bank. A daylight overdraft occurs when an institution’s Federal Reserve Bank account is in a negative position at any point during the business day. For more information, see the Federal Reserve Policy on Payment Systems Risk . SUPERVISORY CONSIDERA TIONS WHEN ANAL YZING BORROWINGS Examiners should analyze the purpose, effec- tiveness, and stability of each bank’s borrow- ings on their own merits. The review of bank borrowings generally contributes to the supervi- sory assessment of the institution’s “Liquidity” rating. The “Liquidity” rating should be based on, among other things, the degree of the bank’s reliance on short-term, volatile sources of funds, including borrowings and brokered deposits, that have been used to fund the bank’s longer- term assets. If a bank borrows extensively or in large amounts, examiners should appropriately ana- lyze the bank’s borrowing activity by • reviewing the principal sources of its borrow- ings, range of amounts, frequency, length of time indebted, borrowing costs, and reasons for the borrowings; • verifying the actual use of the borrowed funds; • analyzing changes in a bank’s borrowing position for signs of deterioration in its bor- rowing ability and overall creditworthiness. Possible signs of deterioration in borrowing ability include; — The payment of large fees to money bro- kers to obtain funds because the bank is having difﬁculty obtaining access to con- ventional sources of borrowings. For more information about the risks associated with brokered deposits, see section 2330.1, “Deposit Accounts”; — Requests from the bank’s lender for col- lateral on previously unsecured credit lines or increases in collateral margins; — The payment of above-market interest rates; and — A shortening of maturities that is incon- sistent with management’s articulated balance-sheet strategies and funding plans. If a bank’s borrowing position is not properly managed, examiners should include appropriate comments in the report of examination. Borrowed Funds 3220.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2023 Page 3 Borrowed Funds Examination Procedures Effective date October 2023 Section 3220.3 Examination procedures are available on the Examination Documentation (ED) modules page on the Board’s website. See the following ED module for examination procedures on this topic: • Liquidity Commercial Bank Examination Manual October 2023 Page 1 Interest Rate Risk Management Effective date November 2020 Section 3300.1 INTRODUCTION Market risk reﬂects the degree to which changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, com- modity prices, or equity prices can adversely affect a ﬁnancial institution’s earnings or capi- tal. For most community banks, market risk primarily reﬂects exposure to interest rate risk (IRR). While this risk is a normal part of banking and can be an important source of proﬁtability and shareholder value, excessive levels of IRR can pose a signiﬁcant threat to an institution’s earnings and capital base. Accord- ingly, effective risk management that maintains IRR at prudent levels is essential to the safety and soundness of institutions. The Interagency Guidelines Establishing Stan- dards for Safety and Soundness (12 CFR 208, appendix D-1) require an institution to manage IRR in a manner that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the complexity of its assets and liabilities; and provide for periodic report- ing to management and the board of directors regarding interest rate risk with adequate infor- mation for management and the board of direc- tors to assess the level of risk. As a result, an important element of examinations and the super- visory process is the evaluation of an institu- tion’s exposure to changes in interest rates. Examiners evaluate both the adequacy of the management process used to control IRR and the quantitative level of exposure. In addition, examiners should assess the existing and poten- tial future effects of changes in interest rates on an institution’s ﬁnancial condition, including the effect on the institution’s capital adequacy, earn- ings, liquidity, and asset quality. This section incorporates and builds upon the principles and guidance provided in four Super- vision & Regulation (SR) letters: • SR-93-69, “Examining Risk Management and Internal Controls for Trading Activities of Banking Organizations”; • SR-96-13, “Joint Policy Statement on Interest Rate Risk”; 1 • SR-10-1, “Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk”; and • SR-12-2, “Questions and Answers on Inter- agency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk Man- agement.” TYPES AND SOURCES OF MARKET RISK Market risk can arise from a variety of sources, including • the overall structure of an institution’s balance sheet, especially its loans, investments, and funding structure; • its use of off-balance-sheet instruments (such as derivatives) for speculation; and • its trading activities, if any. While IRR is the most common form of market risk, market risk also arises from expo- sure to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, and equity prices. Foreign exchange risk surfaces when an insti- tution, typically a larger or internationally active institution, performs foreign currency transac- tions on behalf of its customers, through either wire transfer activity or forward currency con- tracts. Institutions also may be exposed to cur- rency ﬂuctuations if they have a signiﬁcant amount of investments denominated in foreign currencies. Institutions can be adversely affected when currencies in which they hold assets weaken or when currencies in which they have obligations strengthen. Foreign exchange risk also arises indirectly when changes in exchange rates affect the competitive position of an insti- tution that operates in different countries. Commodity price risk is similar to equity risk and encompasses the changes in an institution’s earnings and asset values resulting from ﬂuctua- tions in commodity prices. Some institutions are active in the commodity derivative market, offer- ing derivative contracts linked to commodity prices. In addition, an institution’s borrowers can be affected signiﬁcantly by changes in commodity prices, such as the effect of ﬂuctu- ating oil prices on airlines or in the realm of agricultural lending. Equity price risk is the variation in proﬁt or net worth caused by the changes in the prices of individual shares or the level of stock markets as a whole. Equity risk has both direct and indirect results. Fluctuations in stock prices will directly affect the value of shares, portfolios, and equity derivatives held by an institution. There also may be an indirect effect when declining equity prices affect the viability of a company to which 1. See also 61 Fed. Reg. 33,166 (June 26, 1996). Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 1 the bank has loaned money. Banks generally do not hold equity investments. TYPES OF INTEREST RA TE RISK As previously discussed, IRR is the most com- mon form of market risk for banking institu- tions. IRR can arise from a variety of sources, including repricing risk, yield curve risk, basis risk, options risk, and price risk. Various assets and liabilities may be exposed to more than one type of IRR. Repricing risk is the primary and most dis- cussed source of IRR and is the risk that the institution’s assets, liabilities, and off-balance- sheet (OBS) instruments will reprice at different times or amounts. Repricing mismatches are fundamental to the business of banking and generally occur from either short term liabilities funding longer-term assets or long term liabili- ties funding shorter-term assets. Institutions whose liabilities reprice faster than their assets reprice are considered to be liability sensitive. The earnings of a liability sensitive institution generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when rates rise. Conversely, an asset sensitive institution’s assets reprice more quickly than their liabilities. These institutions’ earnings generally beneﬁt from a rising rate environment and are harmed by a falling rate environment. Yield curve risk is the relationship between changing rates for the same instrument across a spectrum of maturities. It arises when assets and funding sources are linked to similar indexes with different maturities and the shape or slope of the yield curve changes by ﬂattening, steep- ening, or inverting. For example, a 30-year Treasury bond’s yield may change by 200 basis points; however, the three-year Treasury note’s yield only changed by 50 basis points during the same time period. Basis risk arises from a change in the rela- tionship or spread between different market indexes. It occurs when the market indexes used to price assets and liabilities change by different amounts or at different times. For example, assume an operator uses a Treasury bill (T-bill) to hedge an interest rate risk in Eurodollars. The interest rates for T-bills and Eurodollars do not always move exactly parallel to each other. The risk of this lack of parallel movement is basis risk. The second occurs when the period of time for which a ﬁnancial risk exists is not identical with the period of time for which the hedge is arranged, for example, when a three-month interest risk in a revolving Eurodollar loan is hedged with a six-month futures contract in Eurodollars. A change in the shape of the yield curve can bring about nonparallel movements in interest rates for the two different maturities. Options risk is the risk arising from the options in assets, liabilities, and OBS instru- ments. An option provides the holder with the right, but not the obligation, to buy, sell, or, in some manner, alter the cash ﬂow of an instru- ment or ﬁnancial contract. Options may be distinct instruments, such as exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts, or they may be embedded within the contractual terms of other instruments. Instruments with embedded options include bonds and notes with call or put provi- sions (e.g., callable U.S. agency notes), loans that give borrowers the right to prepay balances without penalty (e.g., residential mortgage loans), and various types of non-maturity deposit instru- ments that give depositors the right to withdraw funds at any time without penalty (e.g., demand deposits). Price risk is the risk that the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments will change when interest rates change. For example, trading portfolios, held-for-sale loan portfolios, and mortgage ser- vicing assets contain price risk. EFFECTS OF INTEREST RA TE RISK IRR can expose an institution’s earnings and capital to adverse changes in market interest rates. In assessing the effects of changing rates on earnings, institutions’ measurement systems may focus on either net interest income or net income. In general, institutions focus primarily on net interest income—the difference between total interest income and total interest expense. How- ever, interest rates can affect other income components, especially fee-based income. In particular, non-interest income generated by loan servicing and various asset-securitization pro- grams can be highly sensitive to changes in market interest rates. Institutions with signiﬁ- cant non-interest income that is sensitive to changing rates should have measurement sys- tems in place that focus on net income. 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 2 Market interest rates also affect the value of an institution’s assets, liabilities, and OBS instru- ments and, thus, effect the value of an institu- tion’s equity capital. The economic value of an instrument is an assessment of the present value of its expected net future cash ﬂows, discounted to reﬂect market rates. 2 Interest rate changes can have a material effect on the economic value of an instrument. For example, the economic value of a bond with a ﬁxed coupon rate generally falls in a rising rate environment. By evaluating changes in the institution’s economic value for a given change in interest rates, institution man- agement can identify risk arising from long-term repricing or maturity gaps as the interest rate environment may affect the institution’s future earnings or capital values. Historically, banks have managed their IRR exposures adequately and few have failed solely as a result of adverse interest rate movements. Changes in interest rates can have negative effects on proﬁtability and need to be carefully managed, especially given the rapid pace of ﬁnancial innovation and the heightened level of competition among all types of ﬁnancial insti- tutions. ORGANIZA TIONAL PROCESSES AND CONTROLS FOR MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RA TE RISK Risk-Management Framework As is the case in managing other types of risk, sound IRR management involves effective over- sight and a comprehensive risk-management process that includes the following elements: • effective policies and procedures designed to control the nature and amount of IRR, includ- ing clearly deﬁned IRR limits and lines of responsibility and authority; • appropriate risk-measurement, monitoring, and reporting systems; and • effective internal controls that include an inde- pendent review and/or audit of key elements of the risk-management process. The formality and sophistication used in man- aging IRR often varies by size and sophistica- tion of the institution, the nature and complexity of its holdings and activities, and the overall level of its IRR. Less complex practices may be adequate for well-managed institutions with non- complex activities and holdings that present a low IRR proﬁle. More complex institutions and those with higher IRR exposures or holdings of compli- cated instruments likely require sophisticated and formal IRR management systems to address their broader range of ﬁnancial activities. In addition, formal IRR management systems gen- erally will provide an institution’s senior man- agement with the needed information to monitor and direct day-to-day activities. The more com- plex IRR management processes often employed at these institutions may warrant a more thor- ough independent review and validation process of the IRR model utilized. Individuals involved in the risk-management process should be sufﬁciently independent of business lines to ensure adequate separation of duties and avoid potential conﬂicts of interest. The degree of autonomy these individuals have may be a function of the size and complexity of the institution. In smaller institutions with lim- ited resources, it may not be possible to com- pletely remove individuals with business-line responsibilities from the risk-management pro- cess. In these situations, and assuming the insti- tution engages in less complex activities, the institution’s focus should be directed towards ensuring that risk-management functions are conducted appropriately. Larger, more complex institutions should have separate and indepen- dent risk-management units. Board of Directors and Senior Management Oversight The board of directors and senior management have unique yet complementary responsibilities related to the oversight and management of the institution’s IRR risk proﬁle. 2. For some instruments, the economic value of an instru- ment may be the same or differ from its fair value depending on the facts and circumstances. The fair value is an accounting term and is generally considered to be the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the mea- surement date. For more information on fair value and the fair value measurement of derivatives, see ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurement” as well as the Call Report instructions. Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 3 Board of Directors The board of directors is ultimately responsible for establishing the institution’s level of IRR. The board of directors or a board committee should oversee the establishment, approval, and periodic review of IRR management strategies, policies, procedures, and limits (or risk toler- ances). In addition, the board or a board com- mittee should understand the implications of the IRR strategies that the institution pursues, includ- ing their potential impact on market, liquidity, credit, and operational risks. To be appropriately informed about the institution’s IRR exposure, the nature of risks in current and proposed new activities, and the adequacy of the institution’s risk-management process, the board or its com- mittee should receive reports from senior man- agement that contain sufﬁcient detail to assist in making informed policy decisions. The fre- quency of board reports depends on the com- plexity of the institution’s holdings and the materiality of changes in its holdings. Unlike senior management, the members of an institution’s board of directors do not neces- sarily need to have detailed technical knowledge of complex ﬁnancial instruments, legal issues, or sophisticated risk-management techniques. However, the institution’s board of directors should oversee and hold senior management accountable for appropriately measuring, moni- toring, and controlling IRR. Senior Management Senior management should be responsible for implementing • adequate systems and standards for measuring risk, • standards for valuing positions and measuring performance, • a comprehensive IRR reporting and monitor- ing process, and • effective internal controls and review pro- cesses. Senior management should be responsible for implementing board-approved strategies, poli- cies, and procedures as well as managing IRR within the designated lines of authority and responsibility. Senior management should de- velop and implement policies and procedures that align with the board’s goals, objectives, and risk limits. Senior management should be respon- sible for overseeing institution personnel to conﬁrm that operating standards are being fol- lowed. Further, senior management should assure that institution personnel who perform analysis and risk-management activities related to IRR have the technical knowledge, depth, and expe- rience commensurate with the nature and scope of the institution’s activities. Reports to senior management should provide aggregate information as well as sufﬁcient sup- porting detail, so that management can assess the sensitivity of the institution to changes in market conditions and other important risk fac- tors. Effective IRR reports generally include measurement of IRR exposures relative to limits and disclosure of key assumptions. Senior man- agement should also periodically review the institution’s IRR management policies and pro- cedures to assess the appropriateness of its risk management. Senior management should also discuss risk-measurement, reporting, and man- agement procedures with risk-management staff. These discussions will assist senior management in developing and providing IRR reports to the board of directors that contain sufﬁcient detail to assist in making informed policy decisions for the institution. Policies, Procedures, and Limits Institutions should have clear policies and pro- cedures for limiting and controlling IRR. In general, these policies and procedures should • delineate lines of responsibility and account- ability over IRR management decisions, • clearly deﬁne authorized instruments and per- missible hedging and position-taking strategies, • identify the frequency and method for mea- suring and monitoring IRR, and • specify quantitative limits that deﬁne the acceptable level of risk for the institution. In addition, management should deﬁne the speciﬁc procedures and approvals necessary for exceptions to policies, limits, and authoriza- tions. All IRR risk policies should be reviewed by management and approved by the board of directors at least annually and revised as needed. 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 4 Clear Lines of Authority Whether through formal written policies or oper- ating procedures, management should deﬁne the structure of managerial responsibilities, over- sight, and lines of authority in the following areas: • developing and implementing strategies and tactics used in managing IRR • establishing and maintaining an IRR measure- ment and monitoring system that is commen- surate with the institution’s size and complexity • identifying potential IRR and related issues arising from the use of new products • developing IRR management policies, proce- dures and limits, and authorizing exceptions to policies and limits Individuals and management committees re- sponsible for making decisions about IRR man- agement should be clearly identiﬁed. Most insti- tutions delegate IRR management responsibilities to a committee of senior managers, sometimes called an asset/liability committee (ALCO). At these institutions, policies identify the ALCO membership, the committee’s duties and respon- sibilities, the extent of its decisionmaking author- ity, and the form and frequency of its reports to senior management and the board of directors. An ALCO should have sufﬁciently broad par- ticipation across major banking functions (for example, lending, investment, deposits, and funding) so that its decisions can be executed effectively throughout the institution. In many large institutions, the ALCO delegates day-to- day responsibilities for IRR management to an independent risk-management department or function. Individuals involved in the IRR management process (including separate risk-management units, if present) should be sufﬁciently indepen- dent from the business lines, including through the reporting structure, to provide for adequate separation of duties and avoid potential conﬂicts of interest. Also, personnel charged with mea- suring and monitoring IRR should have a well- founded understanding of the institution’s IRR proﬁle. Compensation policies for these indi- viduals should be adequate enough to attract and retain personnel who are well qualiﬁed to assess the risks of the institution’s activities, and are compatible with effective controls and risk man- agement. Authorized Activities Institutions should clearly identify the types of ﬁnancial instruments that are permissible for managing IRR, either speciﬁcally or by their characteristics. As appropriate to its size and complexity, the institution should delineate pro- cedures for acquiring speciﬁc instruments, man- aging individual portfolios, and controlling the institution’s aggregate IRR exposure. Major hedging or risk-management initiatives should be approved by the board or board committee before being implemented. Before introducing new products, hedging, or position-taking initiatives, management should also determine whether there are adequate opera- tional procedures and risk-control systems in place and whether procedures need to be revised. Risk Limits The goal of IRR management is to maintain an institution’s IRR exposure within self-imposed parameters over a range of possible changes in interest rates. A system of IRR limits and risk-taking guidelines assists an institution in achieving that goal. Such a system should set limits for the institution’s level of IRR and, where appropriate, provide the capability to allocate these limits to individual portfolios or activities. Systems should also identify for man- agement when a limit is violated to allow for prompt management attention. Further, in the event of a limit violation, an institution’s pro- cesses should address speciﬁc escalation proce- dures outlining designated responsible person- nel and risk mitigation procedures. Risk limits should be appropriate to the size, complexity, and ﬁnancial condition of the insti- tution. Depending on the nature of an institu- tion’s holdings and general sophistication, limits can be identiﬁed for individual business units, portfolios, instrument types, or speciﬁc instru- ments. 3 The level of detail of risk limits should reﬂect the characteristics of the institution’s holdings, including the various sources of IRR to which the institution is exposed. Limits applied to portfolio categories and individual instruments should be consistent with and 3. This manual’s section on “Investment Securities and End-User Activities” discusses issues in setting price volatil- ity limits in the acquisition of securities and derivatives. Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 5 complementary to consolidated limits. For exam- ple, an institution should consider whether • IRR limits are consistent with the institution’s overall approach to measuring and managing IRR and address the potential impact of changes in market interest rates on both reported earnings and the institution’s eco- nomic value of equity (EVE); • limits are consistent with the risk tolerance of the board of directors; • IRR tolerances address the potential impact of changing interest rates on capital and earnings from a short-term and a long-term perspec- tive; • limits on the IRR exposure of earnings, which primarily address short term exposure, are broadly consistent with those used to control the exposure of an institution’s economic value, which reﬂects long term exposure; • IRR limits and risk tolerances consider spe- ciﬁc scenarios of market interest rate move- ments, such as an increase or decrease of a particular magnitude; and • the rate movements used in developing these limits represent meaningful stress situations, taking into account historic rate volatility and the time required for management to address exposures. Interest Rate Risk Monitoring and Reporting An effective process of measuring, monitoring, and reporting exposures is essential for ad- equately managing IRR. The sophistication and complexity of this process should be appropriate to the size, complexity, nature, and mix of an institution’s business lines and its IRR charac- teristics. Effective IRR measurement systems monitor the effect of rate changes on both earnings and economic value. The latter is particularly impor- tant for institutions with signiﬁcant holdings of intermediate and long-term instruments or instru- ments with embedded options because their market values can be particularly sensitive to changes in market interest rates. IRR measurement systems should • assess material IRR associated with an insti- tution’s assets, liabilities, and OBS positions; • use generally accepted ﬁnancial concepts and risk-measurement techniques; and • have well-supported assumptions and param- eters. In many cases, the interest rate characteristics of an institution’s largest holdings will dominate its aggregate risk proﬁle. While all of an insti- tution’s holdings should receive appropriate treatment, measurement systems should provide more detailed information on the major holdings and instruments whose values are especially sensitive to rate changes. The IRR measurement system should have sufﬁcient functionality and sophistication to properly identify and value instruments with signiﬁcant embedded or explicit option characteristics. An accurate, informative, and timely manage- ment information system is essential for manag- ing IRR exposure, and ensuring risks and activi- ties align with the institution’s policies and risk tolerance. Reporting of risk measures should be regular and clearly compare current exposure with the institution’s internal risk limits. In general, senior management should receive quar- terly reports on the institution’s IRR proﬁle. The reports should utilize current and accurate data. More frequent reporting may be appropriate depending on the institution’s exposure to IRR and the potential for signiﬁcant changes to the institution’s capital and earnings. In addition, past forecasts or risk estimates should be com- pared with actual results as one tool to identify any potential shortcomings in modeling tech- niques. 4 The types of reports prepared for the board and for various levels of management will vary based on the institution’s IRR proﬁle. Effective IRR reports enable senior management to • evaluate the level of and trends in the institu- tion’s aggregate IRR exposure; • demonstrate and verify compliance with the institution’s policies and limits; • evaluate the sensitivity and reasonableness of key assumptions; • assess the results and future implications of major hedging or position-taking initiatives that have been taken or are being actively considered; 4. For more information, see SR-11-7, “Guidance on Model Risk Management.” 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 6 • understand the implications of various stress scenarios, including those involving break- downs of key assumptions and parameters; • review IRR policies, procedures, and the adequacy of the IRR measurement systems; and • determine whether the institution holds sufﬁ- cient capital for the level of risk being taken. IRR Measurement Methods There are a number of techniques to measure the IRR exposure of both earnings and economic value. Their complexity ranges from simple calculations and static simulations using current holdings to highly sophisticated dynamic mod- eling techniques that reﬂect potential future business and business decisions. Regardless of the methods used, an institution’s IRR measure- ment system should be sufﬁciently robust to capture material on and off-balance-sheet posi- tions and incorporate a stress-testing process to identify and quantify the institution’s IRR expo- sure and potential problem areas. The most common types of IRR measurement systems are • Gap Analysis • Earnings Simulation Analysis • Economic Value of Equity (EVE) Each risk-measurement system has limita- tions and vary in the degree of its ability to capture various components of IRR. The follow- ing exhibit demonstrates the types of interest rate exposures that each measurement system generally addresses. While different methodolo- gies capture different risk exposures, outputs from all models should generally provide a consistent view of IRR trends. If divergent outcomes occur, they are typically due to the structure of the balance sheet, the interest rate environment, the timing of asset/liability mis- matches, the sensitivity of funding sources to interest rate changes, or the volume of ﬁxed or ﬂoating rate assets. Institution management should understand the nature and underlying reasons for material differences in outputs. Gap analysis is a basic IRR measurement technique utilizing a maturity/repricing sched- ule, which distributes assets, liabilities, and OBS holdings into time bands according to their ﬁnal maturity (if ﬁxed rate) or time remaining to their next repricing (if ﬂoating). The choice of time bands may vary from institution to institu- tion. Those assets and liabilities lacking contrac- tual repricing intervals or maturities are assigned to repricing time bands according to the judg- ment and analysis of the institution. Gap analysis can be used to generate rough indicators of the IRR sensitivity of both earnings and economic values to changing interest rates. To evaluate earnings exposures, liabilities ar- rayed in each time band can be subtracted from the assets arrayed in the same time band to yield a dollar amount of maturity/repricing mismatch or gap in each time band. The direction and magnitude of the gaps in various time bands can demonstrate potential earnings volatility arising from changes in market interest rates. A maturity/ repricing schedule also can evaluate the effects of changing rates on an institution’s economic value. Typically, gap analysis includes ratios of rate-sensitive assets to rate-sensitive liabilities in given time periods. Within a given time band, an institution may have a positive, negative, or neutral gap. An institution with a positive gap is “asset sensitive” for the given time band because more assets than liabilities are subject to repric- ing. An institution with a negative gap is “lia- bility sensitive” for the given time band because more liabilities than assets are subject to repric- ing. An institution with a neutral gap (a ratio of Table 1—Interest Rate Exposures by Measurement Systems Gap Analysis Earnings Simulation Analysis Economic Value of Equity Short-term earnings exposure Yes Yes Limited* Long-term exposure Yes Limited* Yes Repricing risk Yes Yes Yes Yield curve risk Limited* Yes Yes Basis risk Limited* Yes Limited* Option risk Limited* Limited* Yes Price risk Limited* Limited* Yes *Depending on the sophistication of the model and the manner in which it is used Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 7 rate-sensitive assets to rate-sensitive liabilities equal to one) is neither asset nor liability sensi- tive for the given time band. At the most basic level, mismatches or gaps in long-dated time bands can provide insights into the potential vulnerability of the economic value of relatively noncomplex institutions. However, gap analysis alone is generally not suitable for adequately assessing the institution’s risk proﬁle for the large majority of institutions. Long-term gap calculations, along with simple maturity distributions of holdings, may be sufﬁcient for relatively noncomplex institutions with basic balance sheets, minimal optionality, and mainly repricing risk. Earnings simulation analysis estimates cash ﬂows and resulting earnings streams over a speciﬁc time period under various interest rate scenarios to estimate the effect of interest rate changes on net interest income or net income. For assessing the exposure of earnings, simula- tions estimating cash ﬂows and resulting earn- ings streams over a speciﬁc period are con- ducted based on existing holdings and assumed interest rate scenarios. A simulation model’s accuracy depends on the use of accurate assump- tions and data. A key aspect of IRR simulation involves the selection of an appropriate time horizon(s) over which to assess IRR exposures. Simulations can be performed over any time horizon and often are used to analyze multiple horizons identify- ing short-term, intermediate-term, and long- term risk. Utilizing a two-year time period generally is effective when using earnings simu- lation models. A two-year time frame effec- tively captures an institution’s important trans- actions, tactics, and strategies to increase revenues, which can be hidden by viewing projected results within shorter time horizons. However, to assess the effects of certain prod- ucts with embedded options, IRR simulations over longer time horizons (ﬁve-to-seven years) are typically needed. Income simulations are static or dynamic. Static simulations are based on current holdings and assume a constant balance sheet with no new growth. Dynamic simulations include as- sumptions of asset growth, changes in existing business lines, new business, or changes in management or customer behaviors. Dynamic earnings simulation models can be useful for business planning and budgeting purposes. How- ever, dynamic simulations are highly dependent on key variables and assumptions and can be inaccurate over an extended period. Further- more, model assumptions, such as growth, can potentially hide underlying risk exposures. Therefore, static and dynamic simulations, in tandem, should be used to provide a more complete description of the institution’s IRR exposure. Economic value of equity (EVE) models con- sider the present value of expected cash ﬂow over the entire expected life of the institution’s holdings. EVE models simulate various interest rate scenarios to estimate the changes in an institution’s economic value of capital as a result of changes in interest rates. This approach focuses on a longer-term time horizon, captures future cash ﬂows expected from existing assets and liabilities, and is effective in considering embedded options in a typical institution’s port- folio. Most EVE models use a static approach by providing a snapshot in time of the risk inherent in the portfolio or balance sheet. However, some institutions incorporate dynamic modeling tech- niques that provide forward-looking estimates of economic value. When utilizing EVE methods, institution man- agement should establish appropriate EVE risk limits. Appropriate limits generally are based on the change of economic capital rather than absolute levels of economic capital. The accu- racy of the assumptions in the model are criti- cally important in the EVE model’s ability to calculate the future cash ﬂows of the institu- tion’s instruments. Unreasonable assumptions can lead to pronounced output errors in EVE models. As such, institution management should understand the signiﬁcance and accuracy of assumptions by conducting sensitivity testing. IRR Scenarios IRR exposure estimates, whether linked to earn- ings or economic value, use some form of forecasts or scenarios of possible changes in market interest rates. Institution management should measure IRR exposure estimates over a probable range of potential interest rate sce- narios, including meaningful stress situations. The scenarios should adequately cover the insti- tution’s meaningful sources of IRR associated with its holdings. In developing appropriate scenarios, institution management should con- sider the current level and term structure of rates and possible changes to that environment, given 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 8 the historical and expected future volatility of market rates. There are various common rate scenarios, including rate shock, rate ramp, stair step, and non-parallel yield curve shifts. A rate-shock scenario is the most commonly used. In this scenario, rate changes are instantaneous and sustained. For instance, a plus 300 basis-point, rate-shock scenario would consist of the full 300 basis-point interest rate increase occurring in the ﬁrst period measured and remain in effect for all measured periods. A rate ramp scenario consists of rate changes applied gradually over a measured period, such as a 300 basis-point rate increase during a 12-month period with rates rising 25 basis points each month. A stair-step scenario also consists of rate changes applied gradually; however, the changes are adminis- tered at less frequent intervals. For example, a 300 basis-point increase might be measured over a two-year period with rates increasing 50 basis points per quarter the ﬁrst year and 25 basis points per quarter the second year. Nonparallel yield curve shifts are scenarios in which the yields do not change by the same number of basis points for every maturity, such as ﬂattening, steepening, or inversion of the yield curve. Effective scenarios conducted by institution management typically include an instantaneous plus or minus 200 basis-point parallel shift in market rates (rate shock). However, those sce- narios alone may not adequately assess an insti- tution’s IRR exposure. As such, institutions should also consider utilizing changes in rates of greater magnitude, such as plus or minus 300 and 400 basis-point shocks. More sophisticated analyses involve the use of multiple scenarios, including the potential effects of changes in the relationships among interest rates (option risk and basis risk) and changes in the general level of interest rates and changes in the shape of the yield curve. Data Integrity In addition to validity of the underlying assump- tions, and IRR scenarios used to model IRR ex- posures, the usefulness of IRR measurements depends on the integrity of the data on current holdings. Simulation techniques that rely heav- ily on speciﬁc assumptions should be used carefully because they rely on speciﬁc assump- tions and parameters, which can lead to inaccu- rate reports if the underlying data is inaccurate. The integrity of data on current positions is an important component of the risk-measurement process. Management should ensure that all material positions are represented in IRR mea- sures, and that the data used are accurate and meaningful. IRR measurement techniques should reﬂect relevant repricing and maturity character- istics on key holdings. When applicable, data should include information on the contractual coupon rates and cash ﬂows of associated instru- ments and contracts. Manual adjustments to underlying data should be supported and con- trolled. Account Aggregation Account aggregation is the process of grouping and measuring accounts of similar types and cash ﬂow characteristics. The account aggrega- tion process should be supported and periodi- cally reviewed. The level of account aggregation from transaction systems into the IRR model will vary from one institution to another based the complexity of the accounts and the sophis- tication of the IRR model. Institutions should appropriately aggregate current account posi- tions by meaningful characteristics (for exam- ple, by instrument type, coupon rate, or repric- ing characteristic). This allows the institution to appropriately measure material types and sources of IRR, including those arising from explicit or embedded options. Both contractual and behav- ioral characteristics should be considered when determining the cash ﬂow patterns of accounts to aggregate. Assumptions Assumptions should be documented and their effects should be well understood by manage- ment. Management should review the assump- tions used in assessing the interest rate sensitiv- ity of complex instruments, such as those with embedded options, and instruments with uncer- tain maturities. Management should assess the consistent replacement growth rate assumptions if the ban uses dynamic simulations of future growth and business assumptions. Assumptions about customer behavior and new business should consider historical patterns and be con- sistent with the interest rate scenarios used. Institutions should review the reasonableness of Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 9 assumptions covering asset prepayments, non- maturity deposit price sensitivity and decay rates, and key rate drivers for each interest rate shock scenario. 5 The following discussion provides back- ground information on the types of assumptions used in IRR models. Driver rates and betas . Driver rates are uti- lized in most earnings simulations and economic value models and represent the rate or rates which drive the re-pricing characteristics of assets and liabilities. Examples of driver rates include the fed funds rate, U.S. Treasury yields, and the Wall Street Journal Prime rate. Depend- ing on the sophistication of the model, a variety of driver rates may be tailored to the different products the institution offers. While institution rates generally move in relation to a driver rate, the movement may be less or more than the movement in the driver rate depending on man- agement’s pricing strategies. Most models uti- lize a beta factor to serve as a proxy for management’s reaction to market changes. A beta factor represents the magnitude of the changes in the rates of bank products compared to the changes in the driver rates. For example, management may be expected to only increase deposit rates by 40 basis points for every 100 basis points move in the fed funds rate, resulting in a beta factor of 40 percent. Beta factors should be based on an analysis of the relationship between the product and the driver rate. To help determine the beta, management can perform correlation or regression analysis to quantify the historical relationship between the product and the drivers. Non-maturity deposits . Assumptions about non-maturity deposits are critical as non-maturity deposits represent a large portion of the indus- try’s funding base. An institution’s IRR mea- surement system should consider the sensitivity of non-maturity deposits, including demand deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, savings deposits, and money market deposit accounts. There are a variety of techniques used to analyze IRR characteristics, and each institu- tion should use a technique that is commensu- rate to the size, sophistication, and complexity of the institution. In general, treatment of non- maturity deposits should consider the historical behavior of the institution’s deposits; general conditions in the institution’s markets, including the degree of competition it faces or likely to face; and anticipated pricing behavior under the scenario investigated. As non-maturity deposits have no contractual maturity date, institutions should utilize assump- tions that determine the maturity of the accounts. The most common assumption utilized is a decay rate. Also, institutions experiencing or projecting capital levels that trigger brokered and high interest rate deposit restrictions should adjust deposit assumptions accordingly. 6 Assumptions, including deposit betas and decay rates, should be supported to the fullest extent practicable. Treatment of non-maturity deposits within the measurement system may, of course, change from time-to-time based on mar- ket and economic conditions. Such changes should be well founded and documented. Treat- ments used in constructing earnings simulation assessments should be conceptually and empiri- cally consistent with those used in developing EVE assessments of IRR. Asset prepayment . Prepayment assumptions reﬂect the optionality and prepayment risk asso- ciated with loans and mortgage-related securi- ties and are critical as cash ﬂows may be received more quickly or more slowly than anticipated. Prepayments are highly inﬂuenced by the direction of interest rates as loan prepay- ments generally slow during periods of rising rates. Prepayment assumptions should take into consideration various factors, such as aging, geographic location, loan size, and ﬁxed versus variable rates. Stress Testing Stress testing, which includes both scenario and sensitivity analysis, is an important part of IRR management. An institution’s risk- measurement system for IRR should contain a meaningful evaluation of the effect of stressful market conditions on the institution. Stress sce- narios should be designed to provide informa- 5. A decay rate estimates the amount of existing non- maturity deposit that will run off over a given time period. Generally, rate-sensitive and higher-cost deposits, such as brokered and Internet deposits, should reﬂect higher decay rates than other types of deposits. 6. Section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o) requires insured depository institutions that are undercapitalized to receive approval before engaging in certain activities, and further restricts interest rates paid on deposits by institutions that are not well capitalized. Section 38 restricts or prohibits certain activities and requires an insured depository institution to submit a capital restoration plan when it becomes under- capitalized. 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 10 tion on the kinds of conditions under which the institution’s strategies or positions would be most vulnerable; thus, testing may be tailored to the risk characteristics of the institution. Pos- sible stress scenarios might include more severe changes in the term structure of interest rates, substantial rate changes over time, relationships among key market rates (basis risk), or volatility of market rates. The stress testing of assump- tions used for illiquid instruments and instru- ments with uncertain contractual maturities, such as core deposits, is particularly critical to achiev- ing an understanding of the institution’s risk proﬁle. Therefore, stress scenarios may include extremes of observed market conditions and plausible worst-case scenarios. Management should conduct sensitivity analy- sis of the assumptions having the largest inﬂu- ence on an institution’s model output under stressful situations. This sensitivity analysis may consist of testing key assumptions or variables by changing the variable in question while keeping all other variables constant and compar- ing the results to the base-case scenario. Based on the results of sensitivity analysis, manage- ment should be able to identify the assumptions which have the most impact on model output. This enables management to focus their efforts in verifying the most salient assumptions. Addi- tionally, sensitivity analysis can be used to determine the conditions under which key busi- ness assumptions and model parameters or when IRR may be exacerbated by other risks or earnings pressures. Internal Controls An important element of an institution’s internal controls for IRR is senior management’s com- prehensive evaluation and review of the various components of the IRR management process. Although procedures for establishing limits and adhering to them may vary among institutions, periodic control reviews should be conducted to determine whether the organization enforces its IRR policies and procedures. Senior manage- ment should promptly address situations where interest rate positions exceed established inter- nal risk limits. Issues should be resolved based on processes described in approved policies. The institution should conduct periodic reviews of IRR management process. Reviews should also be conducted in light of signiﬁcant changes since the last review, such as the nature of instruments acquired, as well as modiﬁcations to risk-measurement methodologies, limits, and internal controls. Validating IRR models is a fundamental part of any institution’s system of internal controls. An important element of model validation is independent review of the model’s logical and conceptual soundness. The scope of the inde- pendent review should assess the institution’s measurement of IRR, including the reasonable- ness of assumptions, the process used in deter- mining assumptions, and the back testing of assumptions and results. Management also should implement adequate follow-up proce- dures to monitor the institution’s corrective actions. The results of these reviews should be available for the relevant supervisory authori- ties. Smaller institutions that do not have the resources to staff an independent review func- tion should have processes in place to ensure the integrity of the various elements of their IRR management processes. Often, smaller insti- tutions will use an internal party that is sufﬁ- ciently removed from the primary IRR functions or an external auditor to independently verify the integrity of the IRR models used. More robust model validations processes for measure- ment systems are appropriate for institutions with complex risk exposures. These processes should include review by external auditors or other knowledgeable outside parties to ensure the IRR models’ adequacy and integrity. Since measurement systems may incorporate one or more subsidiary systems or processes, institu- tions should ensure that multiple component systems are well integrated and consistent in all critical respects. The frequency and extent to which an insti- tution should reevaluate its risk-measurement methodologies and models depends, in part, on the speciﬁc IRR exposures created by their holdings and activities, the pace and nature of changes in market interest rates, and the extent to which there are new developments in mea- suring and managing IRR. In general, an insti- tution should review its underlying IRR mea- surement methodologies and IRR management process annually, and more frequently as insti- tution behaviors and market conditions dictate. Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 11 SUPERVISORY CONSIDERA TIONS IN ASSESSING IRR SENSITIVITY TO MARKET RISK Quantitative Level of IRR Exposure and Effect on Earnings and Capital Examiners evaluating the quantitative level of IRR should review and assess the effects of past and potential changes in interest rates on an institution’s ﬁnancial condition, particularly its earnings, capital, liquidity, and, in some cases, asset quality. This assessment involves a broad analysis of an institution’s business mix, balance- sheet composition, OBS holdings, and holdings of interest rate-sensitive instruments. Examiners should understand the institution’s material hold- ings, and assess how changes in interest rates might affect the institution’s ﬁnancial perfor- mance. While the scope of the assessment should reﬂect the size, sophistication, and nature of the institution’s holdings, primary areas of review include • major on- and off-balance-sheet positions, • concentrations in interest-sensitive instru- ments, • the existence of highly volatile instruments, and • signiﬁcant sources of noninterest income that may be sensitive to changes in interest rates. IRR Exposure to Earnings and Capital An institution’s IRR exposure should be assessed in terms of the potential effects on the institu- tion’s earnings and capital. When evaluating the potential effects of changing rates on an institu- tion’s earnings, examiners will assess the key determinants of the net interest margin, the effect that ﬂuctuations in net interest margins can have on overall net income, and the rate sensitivity of non-interest income and expense. Analyzing the historical behavior of the net interest margin, including the yields on major assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet posi- tions that make up that margin, can provide useful insights into the relative stability of an institution’s earnings. Examiners should evalu- ate the exposure of earnings to changes in interest rates relative to the institution’s overall level of earnings and the potential length of time such exposure might persist. Exposures that would result in a signiﬁcant decline in net interest margins or net income should prompt further investigation of the adequacy and stability of earnings and the adequacy of the institution’s risk-management process. Speciﬁcally, in institutions exhibiting signiﬁcant earnings exposures, examiners should emphasize the results of the institution’s stress tests to determine the extent to which more signiﬁcant and stressful rate moves might mag- nify the erosion in earnings identiﬁed in the more modest rate scenario. When determining the amount of IRR expo- sure in context of capital, examiners will con- sider the effect of changes in market interest rates on the economic value of equity, level of embedded losses in the bank’s ﬁnancial struc- ture, and impact of potential rate changes on the institution’s earnings. Examiners should take into account the abso- lute level of an institution’s earnings or capital both before and after the estimated IRR shock. Institutions with strong earnings and capital can withstand greater shocks, whereas institutions with already less than satisfactory earnings or capital may warrant greater supervisory concern at relatively small IRR shocks. Qualitative Assessment of Interest Rate Risk Management When evaluating interest rate risk management at an institution, examiners should place pri- mary consideration on the following elements of a sound risk-management system: • board of directors and senior management oversight; • policies, procedures, and limits; • risk monitoring and management information systems; and • internal controls. 7 Through discussions with appropriate institu- tion personnel, examiners should determine whether the institution has established appropri- ate corporate governance processes (internal 7. These elements are consistent with the guidance pro- vided in SR-16-11, “Supervisory Guidance for Assessing Risk Management at Supervised Institutions with Total Consoli- dated Assets Less than $50 Billion.” 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 12 policies, procedures, risk limits, and strategies), and whether the board of directors, or a com- mittee thereof, is regularly informed about the level and trend of IRR, and reviews confor- mance with internal IRR policy limits and risk tolerances. If inadequacies are noted, examiners should communicate these ﬁndings to the insti- tution and discuss strategies to improve the institution’s corporate governance processes. Examiners should determine whether internal measurement processes and systems are ad- equate. In particular, examiners should review the institution’s input process by focusing on the procedures for entering and reconciling system data, categorizing and aggregating account data, ensuring the completeness of account data, and assessing the effectiveness of internal controls. In addition, examiners should review the results of the audit or independent reviews, and deter- mine whether the results were appropriately reported to the board of directors, or a commit- tee thereof, and whether the results revealed signiﬁcant deﬁciencies. EXAMINA TION PROCESS Examiners should assess and assign a rating to the sensitivity to market risk component, or “S” component, of the CAMELS rating system, at each full-scope examination. 8 To meet examina- tion objectives efﬁciently and effectively while remaining sensitive to potential burdens imposed on institutions, the examination of sensitivity to market risk should follow a structured, risk- focused approach. A fundamental tenet of this approach is that supervisory resources are tar- geted at functions, activities, and holdings that pose the most risk to the safety and soundness of an institution. Accordingly, institutions with low levels of IRR would be expected to receive relatively less supervisory attention than those with more severe IRR exposures. Many institutions have become especially skilled in managing and limiting the exposure of their earnings to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, for most banks and especially for smaller institutions with less complex holdings, the IRR element of the examination may be relatively simple and straightforward. On the other hand, some banks consider IRR an intended consequence of their business strategies and choose to take and manage that risk explicitly— often with complex ﬁnancial instruments. These banks, along with banks that have a wide array of activities or complex holdings, generally should receive greater supervisory attention. Examination Scope and Off-Site Analysis During the examination scoping process prior to the on-site examination, examiners should use surveillance metrics and supervisory judgment, to determine bank’s risk tier (low, moderate, or high). The scope of the examination work pro- gram should align with the bank’s risk classiﬁ- cation. More information on the use of surveil- lance metrics during the examination scoping process is discussed in this manual’s section entitled, “Community Bank Supervision Pro- cess.” Additionally, examiners should assess the level of IRR exposure and the quality of IRR management to the fullest extent possible during the scoping process by reviewing the following: • organizational charts and policies identifying authorities and responsibilities for manag- ing IRR; • IRR policies, procedures, and limits; • ALCO committee minutes and reports (from 6 to 12 months before the scope visit); • board of director reports on IRR exposures; • audit reports (both internal and external); • most recent IRR report, including assump- tions used in the model; and • Federal Reserve surveillance reports and super- visory screens. If the examiners’ assessment of the risk tier differs from the initial quantitative risk tier, examiners should adjust the risk tier. Adjust- ments to the risk tier during the scoping process based on examiner judgement should be ratio- nalized and documented in the appropriate work papers. During the Examination Examiners should complete the appropriate examination procedures based on the bank’s assigned risk tier. During the examination, the 8. There may be instances where the assessment of sensi- tivity to market risk is a topic of a targeted examination. Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 13 examiner-in-charger and the examiner working the IRR portion of the examination should conﬁrm the risk classiﬁcations on which planned work programs were based and, if needed, adjust or expand the work programs. If initial discussions with management or additional infor- mation obtained during the examination indi- cates signiﬁcant weakness in the bank’s risk management or higher-than-anticipated risk, examiners should modify the examination’s scope and work programs accordingly. All examination work programs are to include the review and veriﬁcation of corrective action taken to address any outstanding Matters Requiring Immediate Attention (MRIAs) or Matters Re- quiring Attention (MRAs). Material weakness in risk management or high levels of IRR exposure relative to earnings and capital may require corrective action. If an examiner determines that an IRR weakness warrants corrective action based on safety and soundness, the examiner, in consultation with the examiner-in-charge, should outline any MRIAs or MRAs. When issuing a supervisory ﬁnding (includ- ing through the issuance of an MRIA or MRA), examiners will not criticize an institution for a “violation” of supervisory guidance (as supervi- sory guidance is not legally binding). When appropriate, examiners may reference (includ- ing in writing) supervisory guidance (such as interagency statements, advisories, bulletins, and policy statements) to provide examples of safe- and-sound conduct, appropriate risk-management practices, and other approaches to addressing compliance with laws or regulations. 9 Assessing CAMELS Ratings For most banks, IRR is the primary market risk exposure. Accordingly, the CAMELS market- risk sensitivity or “S” rating for most banks should be based on assessments of the adequacy of IRR management practices and the quantita- tive level of IRR exposure. 10 In particular, the “S” rating for most banks where IRR is the primary market risk exposure should be based on an assessment of the following evaluation factors: • the sensitivity of the bank’s earnings or the economic value of its capital to adverse changes in interest rates; • the ability of management to identify, mea- sure, monitor, and control exposure to interest rate risk given the bank’s size, complexity, and risk proﬁle; • the nature and complexity of interest rate risk exposure arising from non-trading positions; and • where appropriate, the nature and complexity of market-risk exposure arising from trading and foreign operations. In addition to these listed factors, there may be additional factors that may be appropriate for the examiner to evaluate as part of determining the “S” rating for a bank. The “S” component rating deﬁnitions of the CAMELS rating system are as follows: 1. A rating of “1” indicates that interest rate risk sensitivity is well controlled and that there is minimal potential that the earnings perfor- mance or capital position will be adversely affected. Risk-management practices are strong for the size, sophistication, and market risk accepted by the institution. The level of earnings and capital provide substantial sup- port for the degree of interest rate risk taken by the institution. 2. A rating of “2” indicates that interest rate risk sensitivity is adequately controlled and that there is only moderate potential that the earnings performance or capital position will be adversely affected. Risk-management prac- tices are satisfactory for the size, sophistica- tion, and interest rate risk accepted by the institution. The level of earnings and capital provide adequate support for the degree of interest rate risk taken by the institution. 3. A rating of “3” indicates that control of interest rate risk sensitivity needs improve- ment or that there is signiﬁcant potential that the earnings performance or capital position will be adversely affected. Risk-management practices need to be improved given the size, sophistication, and level of risk accepted by the institution. The level of earnings and capital may not adequately support the degree of interest rate risk taken by the institution. 9. SR-18-5/CA-18-7, “Interagency Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance.” 10. “Overall Conclusions Regarding Condition of the Bank: Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System,” provides guid- ance on the market-risk sensitivity component of the CAM- ELS rating system. 3300.1 Interest Rate Risk Management November 2020 Commercial Bank Examination Manual Page 14 4. A rating of “4” indicates that control of interest rate risk sensitivity is unacceptable or that there is high potential that the earn- ings performance or capital position will be adversely affected. Risk-management prac- tices are deﬁcient for the size, sophistication, and level of risk accepted by the institution. The level of earnings and capital provide inadequate support for the degree of interest rate risk taken by the institution. 5. A rating of “5” indicates that control of interest rate risk sensitivity is unacceptable or that the level of risk taken by the institu- tion is an imminent threat to its viability. Risk-management practices are wholly inad- equate for the size, sophistication, and level of interest rate risk accepted by the institu- tion. The adequacy of a bank’s IRR management is a leading indicator of its potential IRR exposure. Therefore, assessment of IRR management prac- tices should be the basis for the overall assess- ment of a bank’s IRR. Unsafe exposures and management weaknesses should be fully re- ﬂected in “S” ratings. Unsafe exposures and unsound management practices that are not resolved during the on-site examination should be addressed through subsequent follow-up actions by the examiner and other supervisory personnel. Interest Rate Risk Management 3300.1 Commercial Bank Examination Manual November 2020 Page 15 Interest Rate Risk Management Examination Procedures Effective date May 2022 Section 3300.3 Examination procedures are available on the Examination Documentation (ED) modules page on the Board’s website. See the following ED module for examination procedures on this topic: • Rate Sensitivity Commercial Bank Examination Manual May 2022 Page 1