TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/domestic-market-operations/monetary-policy-implementation/repo-reverse-repo-agreements
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements The New York Fed’s Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk) is authorized and directed by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to conduct repurchase agreement (repo) and reverse repo transactions. These open market operations support monetary policy implementation and smooth market functioning, by helping maintain the federal funds (fed funds) rate within the FOMC’s target range. Repos are a common secured money market transaction where the Desk purchases securities from a counterparty subject to an agreement to resell the securities at a later date. A repo transaction is economically similar to a loan collateralized by securities and temporarily increases the supply of reserve balances in the banking system. Conversely, in a reverse repo transaction, the Desk sells securities to a counterparty subject to an agreement to repurchase the securities at a later date. A reverse repo is economically similar to borrowing collateralized by securities and temporarily reduces the supply of reserve balances in the banking system. To support control over the level of the federal funds rate, the FOMC has directed the Desk to conduct repo and reverse repo operations. Overnight Reverse Repo (ON RRP) operations limit downward pressure and help provide a floor under overnight interest rates by providing an alternative investment for a broad base of money market investors when rates fall below the interest on reserve balances (IORB) rate. Standing Repo (SRP) operations limit upward pressure and help provide a ceiling on money market rates. The Desk generally conducts both ON RRP and SRP operations each business day. The Desk can also conduct unscheduled repo or reverse repo operations as needed to maintain the fed funds rate within the target range, in accordance with the FOMC’s directive. In addition to these operations, the New York Fed executes repo and reverse repo transactions with its foreign and international monetary authorities (FIMA) customers. Additional information on pooled foreign overnight reverse repo transactions and the standing FIMA Repo Facility is available here . Overnight Reverse Repo Operations Overnight reverse repo operations support monetary policy implementation and smooth market functioning. Overnight reverse repo operations are designed to limit downward pressure and help provide a floor under overnight money market rates by offering a broad range of financial institutions that are ineligible to earn IORB an alternative risk-free investment option. The Desk conducts ON RRP operations each business day at a pre-announced offering rate set by the FOMC. U.S. Treasury securities held in the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio are used to settle transactions. Overnight reverse repo counterparties include primary dealers, banks, money market mutual funds, and government sponsored enterprises. More information on the ON RRP can be found in Frequently Asked Questions and results of the Desk’s RRP operations are available here . Information on the primary dealers is available here . Standing Repo Operations Standing repo operations support monetary policy implementation and smooth market functioning. Standing repo operations are designed to limit upward pressure and help provide a ceiling on money market rates. The Desk conducts overnight standing repo operations each business day at a pre-announced rate set by the FOMC. Treasury, agency debt, and agency mortgage-backed securities are eligible to settle transactions. Standing repo counterparties include primary dealers and eligible depository institutions. More information on standing repo operations can be found in Frequently Asked Questions and results of the Desk’s repo operations are available here . Data Repo Operations Includes results for today's and past operations. Reverse Repo Operations Includes results for today's and past operations. SOMA Holdings Includes CUSIP-level data and the SOMA Historical Data Export Builder. Transaction Data Includes transaction details. Data are published quarterly, about two years after the transaction was conducted, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act. Markets Data APIs Resources FAQ on Standing Repo Operations Standing Repo Counterparties Schedule of Eligible Securities for Repo Operations FAQs: Reverse Repurchase Agreement Operations Reverse Repo Counterparties Announcements Statement Regarding Open Market Desk Operations on Friday, April 3, 2026 Mar 12, 2026 Statement Regarding Repurchase Agreement Small Value Exercise Feb 11, 2026 Statement Regarding Standing Overnight Repo Operations Dec 10, 2025 Related New York Fed Content Federal Reserve Repo and Reverse Repo Market Operations: Before the Global Financial Crisis to 2015 Federal Reserve Repo and Reverse Repo Market Operations: 2015 to Now Historical Repurchase Agreement Operational Details Treasury Securities Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Agency Debt Securities Securities Lending Annual Report on Open Market Operations Related External Content Federal Reserve Board: Monetary Policy Open Market Operations By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map