TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: 1. Asset Valuations - Financial Stability Report - Federal Reserve
URL: https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/April-2025-financial-stability-report-Asset-Valuations.htm
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Home Publications Financial Stability Report Financial Stability Report - April 2025 Financial Stability Report - April 2025 PDF Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below. Purpose and Framework Overview 1. Asset Valuations 2. Borrowing by Businesses and Households 3. Leverage in the Financial Sector 4. Funding Risks 5. Near-Term Risks to the Financial System 1. Asset Valuations Asset valuations were notable despite price declines in some markets in early April In April, announcements about changes to U.S. trade policy sparked a wave of price declines and volatility across multiple markets as market participants reported heightened uncertainty about the breadth and duration of possible changes to global trade patterns, perceptions of an increased risk of a slowdown in economic activity, and concerns about higher inflation. Nonetheless, prices remained high relative to fundamentals across a range of markets. Treasury market liquidity continued to be low by historical standards heading into April. In early April, yields on Treasury securities exhibited considerable volatility, which contributed to a deterioration in market liquidity. Nonetheless, amid this increase in volatility, trading remained orderly, and markets continued to function without serious disruption. Treasury yields have remained above their average levels since 2008. Equity markets have been turbulent since the previous report. After significant gains in late 2024 and early 2025, equity market price indexes experienced notable swings beginning in early March, with the largest moves occurring after April 2. On net through April 11, equity prices fell more than 6 percent from the previous FSR. Despite this decline, equity prices remained high relative to forecasted earnings, which adjust more slowly than market prices. Corporate bond spreads have widened significantly but have stayed at or below their historical medians, while corporate bond issuance slowed considerably, consistent with periods of elevated volatility. CRE markets showed some signs of stabilizing prices and fundamentals, although the potential for distressed commercial property sales remains if CRE borrowers who need to refinance their mortgages are unable to do so. In residential real estate markets, prices relative to fundamentals continued to be well above their historical averages. Table 1.1 shows the sizes of the asset markets discussed in this section. The two largest asset markets are those for equities and residential real estate, which are substantially larger than the next two markets, Treasury securities and CRE. The table also shows recent and historical growth rates for each asset class, because assets experiencing strong growth can be a sign of high risk appetite in that sector. Table 1.1. Size of selected asset markets Item Outstanding (billions of dollars) Growth, 2023:Q4–2024:Q4 (percent) Average annual growth, 1997–2024:Q4 (percent) Equities 70,332 22.9 9.7 Residential real estate 59,656 5.7 6.2 Treasury securities 28,139 7.3 8.2 Commercial real estate 21,676 −2.4 6.0 Investment-grade corporate bonds 8,038 6.7 8.0 Farmland 3,524 5.5 5.7 High-yield and unrated corporate bonds 1,682 3.0 6.1 Leveraged loans 1 1,418 1.5 12.8 Price growth (real) Commercial real estate 2 −2.9 2.8 Residential real estate 3 .4 2.6 Note: The data extend through 2024:Q4. Outstanding amounts are in nominal terms. Growth rates are nominal and are measured from Q4 of the year immediately preceding the period through Q4 of the final year of the period. Equities, real estate, and farmland are at nominal market value; bonds and loans are at nominal book value. 1. The amount outstanding shows institutional leveraged loans and generally excludes loan commitments held by banks. For example, lines of credit are generally excluded from this measure. Average annual growth of leveraged loans is from 2000 to 2024:Q4, as this market was fairly small before then. Return to table 2. One-year growth of commercial real estate prices is from December 2023 to December 2024, and average annual growth is from December 1999 to December 2024. Both growth rates are calculated from equal-weighted nominal prices deflated using the consumer price index (CPI). Return to table 3. One-year growth of residential real estate prices is from December 2023 to December 2024, and average annual growth is from December 1998 to December 2024. Nominal prices are deflated using the CPI. Return to table Source: For leveraged loans, PitchBook Data, Leveraged Commentary & Data; for corporate bonds, Mergent, Inc., Fixed Income Securities Database; for farmland, Department of Agriculture; for residential real estate price growth, CoreLogic, Inc.; for commercial real estate price growth, CoStar Group, Inc., CoStar Commercial Repeat Sale Indices; for all other items, Federal Reserve Board, Statistical Release Z.1, "Financial Accounts of the United States." Treasury yields remained high amid heightened volatility Treasury yields across maturities continued to be well above their average levels over the past 15 years ( figure 1.1 ). Since the November report, the Treasury yield curve has steepened as yields on shorter-maturity securities fell. A model-based estimate of the nominal Treasury term premium—a measure of the compensation that investors require to hold longer-term Treasury securities rather than shorter-term ones—fell a bit and remained near the top of its rangesince 2010, though also near its longer-term historical median ( figure 1.2 ). Moves in Treasury yields were sizable in early April. Unlike previous flight-to-safety episodes, Treasury prices fell alongside steep declines in equity prices amid heightened uncertainty. Interest rate volatility implied by interest rate swaps was elevated by historical standards and increased further in early April ( figure 1.3 ). Figure 1.1. Nominal Treasury yields remained high Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Treasury rates are the 2-year and 10-year constant-maturity yields based on the most actively traded securities. Values are averaged within a calendar month, except for the value of the last month of the series, which is averaged through the data close date. Source: Federal Reserve Board, Statistical Release H.15, "Selected Interest Rates." Figure 1.2. An estimate of the nominal Treasury term premium was near its historical median Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Term premiums are estimated from a 3-factor term structure model using Treasury yields and Blue Chip interest rate forecasts. Values are averaged within a calendar month, except for the value of the last month of the series, which is averaged through the data close date. Source: Department of the Treasury; Wolters Kluwer, Blue Chip Financial Forecasts; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Federal Reserve Board staff estimates. Figure 1.3. Interest rate volatility remained well above its median since 2005 Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data begin in April 2005. Implied volatility on the 10-year swap rate, 1 month ahead, is derived from swaptions. Values are averaged within a calendar month, except for the value of the last month of the series, which is averaged through the data close date. Source: For data through July 13, 2022, Barclays and S&P Global; for data from July 14, 2022, onward, ICAP, Swaptions and Interest Rate Caps and Floors Data. Equity markets declined, on net, amid a large increase in volatility Measures of equity valuations were stretched by historical standards through March. The price-to-earnings ratio, defined as the ratio of equity prices to expected 12-month earnings, remained well above its historical median ( figure 1.4 ). The difference between the forward earnings-to-price ratio * and the real 10-year Treasury yield—a measure of the additional return that investors require for holding stocks relative to risk-free bonds (the equity premium)—remained well below its historical median ( figure 1.5 ). 2 Equity prices had experienced notable swings in March before declining substantially in early April, with various indexes concluding the week of April 7 somewhat below their values as of the November report. Option-implied equity market volatility rose dramatically and reached levels not seen since March 2020 ( figure 1.6 , black line). These developments suggest that investors demanded increased compensation for holding stocks. Despite the recent decline, prices remained high relative to analysts' earnings forecast, which update more slowly than market prices. Figure 1.4. Before the April volatility, the price-to-earnings ratio of S&P 500 firms was close to the upper end of its historical range Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The figure shows the aggregate forward price-to-earnings ratio of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 firms, based on expected earnings for 12 months ahead. Values are reported as of month-end. Source: LSEG, Institutional Brokers' Estimate System, North American Summary & Detail Estimates, Level 2, Current & History Data, Adjusted and Unadjusted, https://www.lseg.com/en/data-analytics/financial-data/company-data/ibes-estimates . Figure 1.5. As of March, an estimate of the equity premium was near a 20-year low Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data begin in October 1991. The figure shows the difference between the aggregate forward earnings-to-price ratio of Standard & Poor's 500 firms and the expected real Treasury yields, based on expected earnings for 12 months ahead. Expected real Treasury yields are calculated from the 10-year consumer price index inflation forecast, and the smoothed nominal yield curve is estimated from off-the-run securities. Values are reported as of month-end. Source: LSEG, Institutional Brokers' Estimate System, North American Summary & Detail Estimates, Level 2, Current & History Data, Adjusted and Unadjusted, https://www.lseg.com/en/data-analytics/financial-data/company-data/ibes-estimates . Figure 1.6. Volatility in equity markets rose significantly in April Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Realized volatility is computed from an exponentially weighted moving average of 5-minute daily realized variances with 75 percent of the weight distributed over the past 20 business days. Median refers to the median option-implied volatility. Values are averaged within a calendar month, except for the value of the last month of the series, which is averaged through the data close date. Source: Cboe Volatility Index ® (VIX ® ) accessed via Bloomberg Finance L.P.; Federal Reserve Board staff estimates. Spreads in corporate debt markets widened notably but remained at moderate levels Yields on BBB-rated and high-yield corporate bonds were higher than the levels reported in the November report ( figure 1.7 ). Spreads relative to comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened notably, from very compressed to moderate levels relative to their historical distributions ( figure 1.8 ). The excess bond premium for all nonfinancial corporate bonds—a measure of the risk premium required by bond investors after controlling for bond characteristics and credit quality—continued to be near its long-run average ( figure 1.9 ). Nonprice indicators pointed toward moderating risk appetite, particularly in April. Issuance in the corporate bond market slowed significantly, consistent with previous episodes of elevated market volatility. In the second half of 2024, the share of deep junk corporate bond issuance—the fraction of total non-investment-grade issuance accounted for by bonds rated B- or lower—declined from already low levels. Market-based forecasts of one-year-ahead default probabilities of nonfinancial firms (a forward-looking indicator of credit quality) rose somewhat to elevated levels by historical standards. Figure 1.7. Corporate bond yields rose but remained near their median for the past 30 years Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The triple-B series reflects the effective yield of the ICE Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BofAML) triple-B U.S. Corporate Index (C0A4), and the high-yield series reflects the effective yield of the ICE BofAML U.S. High Yield Index (H0A0). Values are reported as of month-end, except for the value of the last month of the series, which is reported as of the data close date. Source: ICE Data Indices, LLC, used with permission. Figure 1.8. Corporate bond spreads increased to moderate levels Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The triple-B series reflects the option-adjusted spread of the ICE Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BofAML) triple-B U.S. Corporate Index (C0A4), and the high-yield series reflects the option-adjusted spread of the ICE BofAML U.S. High Yield Index (H0A0). Values are reported as of month-end, except for the value of the last month of the series, which is reported as of the data close date. Source: ICE Data Indices, LLC, used with permission. Figure 1.9. The excess bond premium was near its long-run average Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The excess bond premium (EBP) is a measure of bond market investors' risk sentiment. It is derived as the residual of a regression that models corporate bond spreads after controlling for expected default losses. By construction, its historical mean is 0. Positive (negative) EBP values indicate that investors' risk appetite is below (above) its historical mean. Source: Federal Reserve Board staff calculations based on Lehman Brothers Fixed Income Database (Warga); Intercontinental Exchange, Inc., ICE Data Services; Center for Research in Security Prices, CRSP/Compustat Merged Database, Wharton Research Data Services; S&P Global, Compustat. Since the last report, the average spread on leveraged loans in the secondary market increased to around the 40th percentile of its historical distribution since 2009 ( figure 1.10 ). Leveraged loan issuance also slowed substantially. Though other measures generally reflect moderate vulnerabilities, the year-ahead expected default rate for leveraged loan borrowers rose sharply to the 90th percentile of its historical distribution since 2009, consistent with increased market volatility. Figure 1.10. Spreads on leveraged loans stayed moderately below their average over the past decade Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data show secondary-market discounted spreads to maturity. Spreads are the constant spread used to equate discounted loan cash flows to the current market price. B-rated spreads begin in July 1997. The black dashed line represents the data transitioning from monthly to weekly in November 2013. Source: PitchBook Data, Leveraged Commentary & Data. Market liquidity has been low by historical standards and was further strained in April, although markets continued to function Market liquidity refers to the ease of buying and selling an asset. Low liquidity can amplify the volatility of asset prices and result in larger price moves in response to shocks. Similarly, increased volatility can dampen liquidity because liquidity providers may become more cautious in providing quotes. In extreme cases, low liquidity can threaten continued market functioning, leading to a situation in which participants are unable to trade without incurring a significant cost. Treasury market liquidity is particularly important because of the key role these securities play in the financial system. Before April, various measures of Treasury market liquidity, including two different measures of market depth in the most liquid on-the-run segment, indicated that liquidity remained low by historical standards ( figures 1.11 and 1.12 ). In April, measures of market liquidity declined further amid a notable rise in trading volumes and volatility, but Treasury markets continued to function without signs of the severe strains that have emerged in some past stress episodes. Figure 1.11. Treasury market depth fell significantly in April from already low levels Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Market depth is defined as the average top 3 bid and ask quote sizes for on-the-run Treasury securities. Source: Inter Dealer Broker Community. Figure 1.12. On-the-run Treasury market depth was close to its historical lows Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data show the time-weighted average market depth at the best quoted prices to buy and sell, for 2-year and 10-year Treasury notes. OTR is on-the-run. Source: BrokerTec; Federal Reserve Board staff calculations. Liquidity in equity markets stayed well below average, and worsened somewhat amid a large increase in volatility ( figure 1.13 ). Through March, liquidity in corporate bond markets was in line with the average level observed in recent years but deteriorated with the higher volatility in early April. Figure 1.13. A measure of liquidity in equity markets stayed well below average Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data show the depth at the best quoted prices to buy and sell, defined as the ask size plus the bid size divided by 2, for E-mini Standard & Poor's 500 futures. Source: LSEG, DataScope Tick History; Federal Reserve Board staff calculations. Commercial real estate prices showed some signs of stabilizing Aggregate CRE prices measured in inflation-adjusted terms were stable since the November report after falling significantly in 2022 and 2023 ( figure 1.14 ). These transaction-based prices may not fully reflect conditions in the CRE market, as many owners wait for more favorable conditions to put properties on the market rather than realizing losses. However, transaction volumes also picked up notably in the fourth quarter of 2024, including in the office sector, which had experienced the largest price declines in 2022 and 2023. Moreover, vacancy rates and rent growth, fundamental determinants of prices, have also shown signs of stabilizing. Capitalization rates at the time of property purchase, which measure the annual income of commercial properties relative to their prices, rose—suggesting prices may be better supported by operating incomes—but remained near the low end of the historical distribution ( figure 1.15 ). In theJanuary 2025 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported some further tightening of lending standards for all CRE loan categories in the fourth quarter of 2024 ( figure 1.16 ). 3 Figure 1.14. Commercial real estate prices adjusted for inflation were little changed Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data are deflated using the consumer price index. The dashed line at 100 indicates the index to January 2001 values. Source: MSCI—Real Capital Analytics; consumer price index, Bureau of Labor Statistics via Haver Analytics. Figure 1.15. Income of commercial properties relative to prices continued to increase but remained below the historical average Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data are a 12-month moving average of weighted capitalization rates in the industrial, retail, office, and multifamily sectors, based on national square footage in 2009. Source: MSCI—Real Capital Analytics; Andrew C. Florance, Norm G. Miller, Ruijue Peng, and Jay Spivey (2010), "Slicing, Dicing, and Scoping the Size of the U.S. Commercial Real Estate Market," Journal of Real Estate Portfolio Management, vol. 16 (May–August), pp. 101–18. Figure 1.16. Banks reported tightening lending standards for commercial real estate loans in the fourth quarter of 2024 Accessible Version | Return to text Note: Banks' responses are weighted by their commercial real estate loan market shares. Survey respondents to the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices are asked about the changes over the quarter. The shaded bars with top caps indicate periods of business recession as defined by the National Bureau of Economic Research: March 2001–November 2001, December 2007–June 2009, and February 2020–April 2020. Source: Federal Reserve Board, Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices; Federal Reserve Board staff calculations. Refinancing risk remained a potential vulnerability for CRE prices. Industry estimates suggest that about 20 percent of all outstanding CRE loans, just shy of $1 trillion, will mature in 2025. 4 In addition, many borrowers have not yet secured refinancing to pay off their maturing debts amid tight lending standards, reduced property valuations, and interest rates above the levels that prevailed when much of the debt was originated. Forced sales in a thin market could cause significant price declines, including for properties that are not distressed. Servicers of loans that have been securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) granted a large number of office loan modifications in January, and the rate at which office loans in CMBS became delinquent at maturity dropped markedly, though it remained elevated by historical standards. Residential real estate prices remained high relative to fundamentals Valuations in the residential real estate sector remained elevated. House prices continued to increase through February of this year ( figure 1.17 ). A model of house price valuation based on prices relative to market rents and the real 10-year Treasury yield suggested that valuations in housing markets were at levels seen in the early to mid-2000s. An alternative measure of valuation pressures (which uses owners' equivalent rent instead of market rents and has a longer history) remained similarly elevated ( figure 1.18 ). The median price-to-rent ratio measured across a wide distribution of geographic areas was little changed since the November report, hovering near its previous peak in the mid-2000s ( figure 1.19 ). However, outstanding mortgage balances relative to both market- and model-implied house values remained far below levels seen in the mid-2000s (see Section 2), suggesting that house price declines are less likely to leave borrowers in the types of low- or negative equity positions that are associated with a higher likelihood of default. Moreover, credit conditions for borrowers remained tighter relative to the early 2000s, suggesting that weak credit standards are not driving house price growth. Figure 1.17. House prices continued to increase in recent months Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data extend through February 2025 for Zillow and January 2025 for CoreLogic and Case-Shiller. Source: Zillow, Inc., Real Estate Data; CoreLogic, Inc., Real Estate Data; S&P Case-Shiller Home Price Indices. Figure 1.18. Model-based measures of house price valuations climbed to near historically high levels Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The owners' equivalent rent value for 2025:Q1 is based on monthly data through February 2025. The data for the market-based rents model begin in 2004:Q1 and extend through 2025:Q1. Source: For house prices, Zillow, Inc., Real Estate Data; for rent data, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Figure 1.19. House price-to-rent ratios were broadly unchanged and remained elevated across geographic areas Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data are seasonally adjusted. Percentiles are based on 19 large metropolitan statistical areas. Source: For house prices, Zillow, Inc., Real Estate Data; for rent data, Bureau of Labor Statistics. *Note: On September 19, 2025, the top-right label in figure 1.19 was corrected to show that the data are indexed to January 2010 = 100. Farmland valuations remained high relative to farm income U.S. farmland prices continued to rise in 2024 from historically high levels ( figure 1.20 ), as did price-to-rent ratios ( figure 1.21 ). Prices continued to be sustained in the short run by limited farmland inventory, despite elevated interest rates and higher operating costs. These valuations have been, in part, supported by expected growth in farm income. Figure 1.20. Inflation-adjusted farmland prices rose further in 2024 from already elevated levels Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data for the U.S. begin in 1997. Midwest index is a weighted average of Corn Belt and Great Plains states derived from staff calculations. Values are given in real terms. Source: Department of Agriculture; Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis staff calculations. Figure 1.21. Farmland prices relative to rents increased to historical highs in 2024 Accessible Version | Return to text Note: The data for the U.S. begin in 1998. Midwest index is a weighted average of Corn Belt and Great Plains states derived from staff calculations. Source: Department of Agriculture; Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis staff calculations. References * On March 2, 2026, the term “forward P/E” was corrected to “forward earnings-to-price” ratio. Return to text 2. This estimate is constructed based on expected corporate earnings for 12 months ahead. Return to text 3. The SLOOS results reported are based on banks' responses weighted by each bank's outstanding loans in the respective loan category and might therefore differ from the results reported in the published SLOOS, which are based on banks' unweighted responses. Return to text 4. The Mortgage Bankers Association estimates $957 billion will mature in 2025, and S&P Global estimates $998 billion. Return to text Back to Top Last Update: March 02, 2026