TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: The Fed - FR Y-14Q - Federal Reserve
URL: https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/fr-y-14-qas/fr-y-14-qas-fr-y-14q.htm
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Home Publications FR Y-14 Information Collection Q&As Capital Assessments and Stress Testing Information Collection Q&As FR Y-14 Information Collection Q&As Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below. Capital Assessments and Stress Testing Information Collection Q&As Q&As Sorted by Reporting Form FR Y-14A FR Y-14M FR Y-14Q FR Y-14Q General Q (Y140001093, General): The real estate lending schedules of the FR Y-14M explicitly describe that the lien position of a loan should be reported as the position at origination. However, the FR Y-14Q Schedules A.4 International Home Equity, A.5 International First Mortgage, H.1 Corporate Loan, and H.2 Commercial Real Estate (inclusive of any referenced FR Y-9C line item instructions) do not indicate if the lien position should be reported using attributes at origination or as of the reporting date. Please confirm if lien positions for these FR Y-14Q schedules should be reported using the position at origination (consistent with the FR Y-14M) or as of the reporting date. A: For FR Y-14Q, Schedule A.4, International Home Equity, report international home equity loans secured by real estate as defined in the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C, item 1, that meet the loan criteria of item 1.c.1 and 1.c.2.b as of the report date. For FR Y-14Q, Schedule A.5, International First Lien Mortgage, report international first lien mortgage loans secured by real estate as defined in the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C, item 1, which meet the loan criteria of item 1.c.2.a as of the report date. For FR Y-14Q, Schedules H.1 (Corporate Loan) and H.2 (Commercial Real Estate), per the instructions to report all fields with data as of the report date, report lien status for each facility as of the report date. (FRB Response: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001400, General): How should firms report Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan balances on the FR Y-14Q following the March 31, 2021, as of date? A: Beginning with the June 30, 2021, FR Y-14Q report, firms should not include PPP loan balances in Schedule A.9 (U.S. Small Business), Schedule H (Wholesale Risk), or Schedule M (Balances). Firms should only include PPP loan balances in Schedule K (Supplemental). (FRB Response: March 17, 2021) Q (Y140001183, General): We hold a convertible available-for-sale or AFS debt security issued from a non-publicly traded entity which is ultimately convertible to common stock. The FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 instructions state that reporting should follow balance sheet classification of FR Y-9C (e.g., Securities will correspond with Schedule HC-B breakdowns) and further indicate that any securities not specifically excluded should be reported. Additionally, the FR Y-14Q Schedule F instructions define Private Equity to include all equity related investments such as common, preferred, and convertible securities. Please provide clarification on appropriate reporting for the aforementioned Convertible AFS debt security. Should such investments be reported on FR Y-14Q within Schedule B only, Schedule F only, or on both Schedules B & F? A: Report such convertible available-for-sale debt security issued from a non-public traded entity on Schedule F as Private Equity. Because the security would be reported on Schedule F, please do not report it on Schedule B. (FRB Response: May 13, 2020) Schedule A—Retail Q (Y140001130, A.9 – U.S. Small Business): Various FR Y-14Q Retail Schedules require reporting $ Commitments as Summary Variables. For example, Schedule A.9 (US Small Business) Summary Variable #5 requires reporting, "the total dollar amount of commitments for the segment as of month-end." The loan population that is applicable for A.9 reporting includes scored/delinquency managed loans as reporting in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C with no further instructions on the scope of reportable commitment amounts. Should the reporting of $ commitments: Include commitment amounts only for arrangements that have funded amounts as reported in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C Include commitment amounts for all arrangements that involve executed credit agreements as of the report date (i.e., include commitment amounts for all arrangements regardless of current funding status or recognition on FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C), or Include all commitment amounts as reportable in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-L inclusive of commitments-to-commit A: On Schedule A.9, for summary variable B.5 ($ Commitments), report the total dollar amount of commitments for the segment as of month-end, regardless of current funding status and including all commitment amounts reportable in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-L. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001637, A.9 - U.S. Small Business): Prior FAQs state that Retail accounts with partial charge-offs that have remaining unpaid principal balances (UPB) are not to be reported within the # of accounts and $ outstanding summary variables within Schedule A Retail sub-schedules. However, the remaining UPB are still reportable within the FR Y-9C (schedule HC & HC-C). Thus, existing FAQ guidance would cause a reconciling difference between Y-14Q Schedule A and the FR Y-9C. Please confirm that this is in fact the FRB's Y-14Q schedule A reporting expectation? If so, is it your expectation that these remaining UPB excluded from Y-14Q schedule A be reported within Schedule K Supplemental as immaterial balances (column A)? A: For FR Y-14Q, Schedule A (Retail), accounts with remaining book balances after the processing of partial charge-off activity should not be included in the calculation of the # of accounts and $ outstanding summary variables. In the month of a partial charge off, the remaining unpaid principal balance from a partially charged off account should be reported in either the $ gross contractual charge-offs or the $ bankruptcy charge-offs field, as appropriate. In subsequent months, the unpaid principal balance should not be reported in these fields, nor in the # of accounts and $ outstanding summary variables. The remaining unpaid principal balance from partially charged off accounts should generally not be reported in Schedule K (Supplemental), Column A, unless it meets the conditions for that column as described in the FR Y-14Q instructions. (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001678, A.2 – U.S. Auto Loan): The Firm would like to clarify the reporting requirement for FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 as it relates to BASEL related fields (i.e. Schedule A.2 Field 28 Probability of Default – PD, Field 29 Loss Given Default – LGD), and in reference to prior FAQ response for FAQ RTO0049. Should Firms report these BASEL fields consistently as weighted averages, wherein these are interpreted to be simple account averages and not dollar weighted averages. A: When reporting fields 28 and 29, firms should report the Basel parameters (PD or LGD) associated with each account's corresponding segment and then calculate the account weighted average (simple account average and not dollar-weighted) of all the accounts in this specific FR Y-14Q segment. (FRB Response: June 26, 2024) Q (Y140001242, A.2 – U.S. Auto Loan): We also have a similar question but related to the FR Y-14Q US Auto and Small Business submission. Should we be using a frozen delinquency as of 3/15 for the March segmentations to adjust for the impact of COVID-19 extensions? In addition, should the freeze factor in to the Ever 30/60 DPD in the last 12 months variables as well? A: In the April 7, 2020, Interagency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the Coronavirus (Revised), the federal banking agencies encouraged financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers who are or may be unable to meet their contractual payment obligations because of the effects of COVID-19. The Interagency Statement affirmed that, with regard to loans not otherwise reportable as past due, financial institutions are not expected to designate loans with deferrals granted due to COVID-19 as past due because of the deferral. A loan's payment date is governed by the due date stipulated in the legal agreement. If a financial institution agrees to a payment deferral, this may result in no contractual payments being past due, and these loans are not considered past due during the period of the deferral. However, U.S. auto loans and small business loans in forbearance programs should be reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 (Retail – U.S. Auto) Summary Variable 26 ($ Loss mitigation) and Schedule A.9 (Retail – USSB) Summary Variable 6 ($ Modifications), respectively. In FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 Summary Variable 26, firms should report the total unpaid principal balance for accounts on the book for the segment as of month-end that are currently in a loss mitigation program. Likewise, in FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 Summary Variable 6, firms should report the total unpaid principal balance of loans that have been adjusted as part of a loan modification program. (Note: The related question referenced in the question is Q&A #Y140001219.) (FRB Response: March 15, 2023) Q (Y140001372, A.2 – U.S. Auto Loan): For FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 & A.9 Summary Variable, "$ New Accounts", should the Firm report loans that were originated and closed within the same reporting month (i.e. did not have any Unpaid Principle Balance on the books at month end). Background: The Schedule A.2 & A.9 "$ New Accounts" Summary Variable instructions require firms to report the total dollar amount of new accounts originated (or purchased) in a given month for the segments as of month-end. The instructions do not state if this Summary Variable should report all flow for new accounts in a reporting month. The Firm reports the dollar amounts of accounts originated and closed within the same month in the "$ New Accounts" Summary Variable. For example, during the month of September, the Firm originates and fully funds 10 new loans that are $10 each to the respective customers. Before September 30th, three of the Firm's customers pay off their loan balance that amounted to $30 in total. In this situation, the Firm reports $100 for the "$ New Accounts" Summary Variable. The Firm will continue its current reporting until further instructions from the Board. A: In FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 (Retail – U.S. Auto), Summary Variable "$ New Accounts," report the total dollar amount of new accounts originated (or purchased) in the given month regardless of whether the account is closed within the same month. The segment variables for FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 (Retail – U.S. Small Business) instruct reporters to segment the U.S. small business portfolio into certain product types as of month-end. Accounts that are closed at month-end would not be included in these segments, and therefore should not be reported in Schedule A.9, Summary Variable "$ New Accounts." (FRB Response: February 1, 2023) Q (Y140001315, A.7 – U.S. Other Consumer): We require clarification in a scenario when our existing schedule FR Y-14Q A.7 US Other consumer falls below the materiality threshold. As per FR Y-14Q instructions, the reportability of the schedules is subject to materiality thresholds. Material portfolios are defined as those with asset balances greater than $5 billion or with asset balances greater than 5% percent of Tier 1 capital on average for the four quarters preceding the reporting quarter. The total reportable asset balances for schedule A.7 US Other consumer falls below the materiality threshold as mentioned above. In such cases, should the reporting of the schedule be discontinued from that quarter? If yes then in future, when the schedule once again breaches materiality threshold, are we expected to do retrospective filing (i.e. Filing from quarters when we stopped filing) or only from the current quarter in which we breached the materiality threshold again? A: A firm is not required to report a schedule that is subject to a materiality threshold if the schedule does not meet the relevant definition of materiality, regardless of whether the firm previously reported the schedule. A firm that filed a sub-schedule in FR Y-14Q, Schedule A (Retail) in the past, subsequently fell below the materiality threshold for the sub-schedule, and then becomes required to resume filing the sub-schedule must provide enough historical data to ensure that a complete historical submission between January 2007 and the current reporting period has been provided to the Federal Reserve. Such a firm does not need to provide historical data that has been previously reported to the Federal Reserve on the sub-schedule. (FRB Response: January 18, 2023) Q (Y140001569, A.2 – U.S. Auto Loan): Should loans that are actively being serviced by the firm, but have been fully charged-off the firm's financial statements continue to be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2? Typically, the firm will fully charge-off a loan in its financial statements when the collateral securing the loan is either insufficient to cover the outstanding UPB or there are questions on whether the collateral can be appropriately secured. These loans would continue to be active in the firm's servicing systems and would continue to show an outstanding Unpaid Principal Balance ("UPB") from the borrower. An example would be an auto loan where there are questions on repossessing the vehicle. A: According to FR Y-14Q instructions, firms should only report total unpaid principal balance for accounts on the book for the segment as of month-end in FR Y-14Q, Schedule A.2, Summary Variable B.2 "$ Outstandings." U.S. auto loans that are actively being serviced by the firm but have been fully charged off may, as appropriate, be reported in FR Y-14Q, Schedule A.2, Summary Variables B.12 ("$ Gross contractual charge-offs"), B.13 ("$ Bankruptcy charge-offs"), B.15 ("$ Net charge-offs"), and B.32 ("$ Unpaid Principal Balance at Charge-off"). (FRB Response: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001431, A.2 – U.S. Auto Loan): How should the Firm report vehicle repossessions in FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 in Summary Variables B.2 "$ Outstandings", B.10 "$ Repossession" and B.11 "$ Current Month Repossession"? Please consider the following options: Report zero in B.2 "$ Outstandings" and the unpaid principle balance (UPB) of the loan associated with a repossessed vehicle (reported in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-F (Other assets)) in B.10 "$ Repossession" and B.11 "$ Current Month Repossession"? Report the UPB of the loan associated with a repossessed vehicle (reported in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-F (Other assets)) in B.2, B.10 and B.11? Report zero in B.2, B.10 and B.11 Background: Per the Firm's practice under US GAAP, when a vehicle is repossessed, the Firm writes off the associated auto loan balance and UPB to zero and reports the repossessed vehicle in Other Assets in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-F line item 6. The schedule instructions, in conjunction with edit checks, are unclear as to which summary variables should include the UPB of the loan associated with a repossessed vehicle. According to the Schedule A.2 general instructions, the Firm should include all repossessed auto loans as defined in the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-F, item 6 for reporting in Summary Variables B.10 and B.11 only. However, excluding repossessed vehicles from Summary Variables B.2 causes edit check failures. Therefore, the Firm is seeking clarification. Currently, the Firm is reporting option 1 in the three Summary Variables under discussion. For example, a vehicle with a fair value of $90 is repossessed on March 10, the associated past due auto loan of $100 is written off. As of March 31, the $90 fair value of the vehicle is reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-F, the loan is written off and not reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C. In Schedule A.2 submission as of March 31, the Firm would report UPB of $0 in B.2 and 100 in B.10 and B.11. The Firm will keep this practice unchanged unless instructed otherwise. A: For vehicle repossessions, continue reporting option 1 for the three Summary Variables. Per the FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 Instructions, the unpaid principal balance of loans still on the books whose vehicles have been repossessed for the segment as of month-end should be reported in B.10, and the unpaid principal balance of loans still on the books whose vehicles were newly repossessed in the given month for the segment as of month-end should be reported in B.11. For U.S. auto loans where the vehicle has not been repossessed, the total unpaid principal balance for accounts on the book for the segment as of month-end should be reported in B.2. (FRB Response: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001258, General): Instructions indicate the domestic retail schedules of FR Y-14Q Schedule A should consist of all relevant domestic loans consistent with FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C classification, which is determined based on the location of the bank branch or office which holds the loan. However, Schedule A geography segmenting is based on the primary borrower's current place of residence. Given recent instruction updates intended to align definitions between the FR Y-14Q and FR Y-9C (e.g. considering "US territories and possessions" as international), we would like clarification on how to report loans originated by a domestic branch office to a borrower with an international current residence. Example: For a retail auto loan held by a domestic branch with a primary borrower that resides in Canada, FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C instructions require reporting in Column B "In Domestic Offices". In the FR Y-14Q Schedule A, should this loan be reported in Schedule A.1 "International Auto Loan" based on the primary borrower's current place of residence, or Schedule A.2 "US Auto Loan" to align with reporting the loan in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C Column B "In Domestic Offices"? If this determination is based on the location of the office which holds the loan, please clarify which geography segment a loan held by a domestic office to a borrower with an international current residence should be reported. If this determination is based on the current residence of the primary borrower, please confirm portfolio totals reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule A will not align with domestic totals reported in FR Y-9C HC-C and quarter-end domestic and international balances reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule M.1. A: With the exception of schedule A.3 International Credit Card, use the location of the loan office to report loans to domestic or international FR Y-14Q Schedule A Retail sub-schedules. Continue to categorize the loans by the geography segment ID as described in the sub-schedules. For the sub-schedules that request geography by the borrower's current place of residence, if the current borrower's residence cannot be placed in one of the geography regions, then use the last known address associated with the borrower that would allow for categorization into one of the geography regions on that sub-schedule. For example, if an auto loan is held by a U.S. office but the borrower currently resides in Canada, report this loan in schedule A.2 U.S. Auto Loans and use the last known U.S. address of the borrower to report the geography segment. (FRB Response: December 15, 2021) Q (Y140001176, General): 1. Changes were made to the FR Y-14Q Schedule A instructions so that, per FRN comments, loans in U.S. territories would be treated as international. The changes to the instructions tell firms to refer to the FR Y-9C definition of "domestic." The FR Y-9C instructions include a definition for "domestic office" and "domicile," which each treat US Territories differently: Domestic Office: (doesn't include US Territories) Domestic Office: For purposes of these reports, a domestic office of the reporting holding company is a branch or consolidated subsidiary other than an Edge or Agreement subsidiary) located in the 50 states of the United States or the District of Columbia or a branch on a U.S. military facility wherever located. However, if the reporting holding company is chartered and headquartered in Puerto Rico or a U.S. territory or possession, a branch or consolidated subsidiary located in the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or a U.S. territory or possession is a domestic office. The domestic offices of the reporting holding company exclude all International Banking Facilities (IBFs); all offices of Edge and Agreement subsidiaries, including their U.S. offices; and all branches and other consolidated subsidiaries of the holding company located in foreign countries. Domicile: (US Addressees do include US Territories) Domicile: Domicile is used to determine the foreign (non-U.S. addressee) or domestic (U.S. addressee) location of a customer of the reporting holding company for the purposes of these reports. Domicile is determined by the principal residence address of an individual or the principal business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. If other addresses are used for correspondence or other purposes, only the principal address, insofar as it is known to the reporting holding company, should be used in determining whether a customer should be regarded as a U.S. or non-U.S. addressee. For purposes of defining customers of the reporting holding company, U.S. addressees include residents of the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories and possessions. The term U.S. addressee generally includes U.S.-based subsidiaries of foreign banks and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks. Non-U.S. addressees include residents of any foreign country. The term non-U.S. addressee generally includes foreign-based subsidiaries of other U.S. banks and holding companies. The structure of the FR Y-14 retail collection seems to use the domicile of the borrower to differentiate between domestic international. Q&A Y140000700 also indicates that the determination for International Credit Card loans should be based on the domicile of the borrower. If the intent is to capture loans to borrowers in US territories as International Loans, this is a deviation from the FR Y-9C definition of domicile. Please specify how banks should classify loans to borrowers domiciled in US Territories on the Y-14Q. A: With the exception of schedule A.3 International Card, use the location of the loan office to report loans to domestic or international FR Y-14Q Schedule A Retail sub-schedules. Continue to categorize the loans by the geography segment ID as described in the sub-schedules. For the sub-schedules that request geography by the borrower's current place of residence, if the current borrower's residence cannot be placed in one of the geography regions, then use the last known address associated with the borrower that would allow categorization into one of the geography regions on that sub-schedule. Furthermore, for loans reported in international sub-schedules, if the borrower's residence is in a U.S. territory/possession in the Caribbean, report the loans under the LATAM region. If the borrower lives in a U.S. territory or possession in the Pacific, then segment the loan under the APAC region. (FRB Response: December 15, 2021) Q (Y140000994, A.7 – U.S. Other Consumer): Please clarify the definition of domestic loans. As per instructions, reporting population includes all domestic loans as defined in FRY-9C. In this regard, in US Other Consumer loan template whether we have to report domestic loans as per domicile of reporting entity's office (i.e. entity issuing loans) or from borrower's domicile perspective? A: With the exception of schedule A.3 International Credit Card, use the location of the loan office to determine loan reporting to domestic or international FR Y-14Q Schedule A Retail sub-schedules. (FRB Response: December 15, 2021) Q (Y140001192, General): As per the revised FR Y-14Q instructions released in December 2019, Retail Product Schedules (A.1 to A.10) include a new variable – Weighted Average Life of Loans, with the following definition: "The Weighted Average Life of Loans should reflect the current position, the impact of new business activity, as well as the impact of behavioral assumptions such as prepayments or defaults, based on the expected remaining lives, inclusive of behavioral assumptions as of month-end. It should reflect the weighted average of time to principal actual repayment (as modeled) for all positions in the segment, rounded to the nearest monthly term." At the same time, the FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 – PPNR Metrics and the FR Y-14A Schedule A.7.c – PPNR metrics require the reporting of the Quarter End Weighted Average Life of Assets, which has a similar definition as the Weighted Average Life of Loans variable included in FR Y-14Q Retail Product Schedule. FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 – PPNR Metrics and FR Y-14A Schedule A.7.c – PPNR metrics: "The Weighted Average Life (WAL) should reflect the current position, the impact of new business activity, as well as the impact of behavioral assumptions such as prepayments or defaults, based on the expected remaining lives, inclusive of behavioral assumptions. It should reflect the weighted average of time to principal actual repayment (as modeled) for all positions in that portfolio, rounded to the nearest monthly term. For revolving products, the WAL should reflect the underlying repayment behavior assumptions assumed by the institution, which would include contractual repayments, any assumed excess payments or prepayments, and defaults. The WAL for the FR Y-14Q disclosures should reflect the spot balance sheet position for each time-period. The WAL should be reflective of the timing assumed by the institutions for those assets/liabilities trading portfolios to be held on the balance sheet and not at the individual position level. For the FR Y-14A, given that it covers forecasted time periods, the WAL should be forward-looking which incorporates the changes to the projected WAL, including new business activity. Reference the PPNR Net Interest Income worksheet for product definitions." Given the similarity of the definitions between Weighted Average Life of Loans in the FR Y-14Q Retail Product Schedules and the Weighted Average Life of Assets in the PPNR Schedules as shown above, we would like to clarify the following questions: 1. Should the statement included in the WAL definition about "spot balance sheet position" for the FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 ("The WAL for the FR Y-14Q disclosures should reflect the spot balance sheet position for each time period. The WAL should be reflective of the timing assumed by the institutions for those assets/liabilities trading portfolios to be held on the balance sheet and not at the individual position level.") apply for Weighted Average Life of Loans variable required in the FR Y-14Q Retail Product Schedules? If not, what should be included for "new business activity"? 2. Does the additional clarification for revolving products included in the FR-14Q Schedule G.3 / FR Y-14A Schedule A.7.c apply for the Weighted Average Life of Loans required in the FR Y-14Q Retail Product Schedules ("For revolving products, the WAL should reflect the underlying repayment behavior assumptions assumed by the institution, which would include contractual repayments, any assumed excess payments or prepayments, and defaults.")? If so, does this mean that future spend on revolving accounts should not be considered in this calculation? 3. Is the forward-looking approach incorporating projected WAL stated in Weighted Average Life of Assets for FR Y-14A in the definition in FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 and the FR Y-14A Schedule A.7.c ("For the FR Y-14A, given that it covers forecasted time periods, the WAL should be forward-looking which incorporates the changes to the projected WAL, including new business activity. Reference the PPNR Net Interest Income worksheet for product definitions.") applicable for the Weighted Average Life of Loans required in the FR Y-14Q Schedule A on current position to incorporate impact of the behavioral assumptions? 4. Even though the required granularity is not the same, should the methodology to calculate Weighted Average Life of Loans required in the FR Y-14Q Retail Product Schedules be consistent with the calculation of Weighted Average Life of Loans required in the FR-14Q Schedule G.3 / FR Y-14A Schedule A.7.c. Is this interpretation aligned with FRB expectations? A: 1. The Weighted Average Life of Loans should reflect the current position, the impact of new business activity, as well as the impact of behavioral assumptions, such as prepayments or defaults, based on the expected remaining lives, inclusive of behavioral assumptions as of month-end. 2. Future spending on revolving accounts should not be considered only in cases where future draws are unconditionally cancellable. 3. It should reflect the weighted average of time to principal actual repayment (as modeled) for all positions in the segment, which may be forward-looking. 4. The calculation of Weighted Average Life of Loans should be consistent within the Y-14Q schedules. (FRB Response: April 21, 2021) Q (Y140001194, General): All, the following is a request for clarification for the following variable as described in its entirety in the latest iteration of the FR Y14Q instructions as it pertain to schedules of A.2 US Auto Loans, A.7 US Other Consumer, and A.9 US Small Business. Excerpt from instructions: "Weighted Average Life of Loans – The Weighted Average Life of Loans should reflect the current position, the impact of new business activity, as well as the impact of behavioral assumptions such as prepayments or defaults, based on the expected remaining lives, inclusive of behavioral assumptions as of month-end. It should reflect the weighted average of time to principal actual repayment (as modeled) for all positions in the segment, rounded to the nearest monthly term." We believe the instructions as described leave ambiguity as to how the Federal Reserve perceives this variable to be calculated. In itself, there are several methodologies that can be utilized to calculate this variable. If the Federal Reserve intends to measure all BHC's in the same light, then, we believe that additional clarification, i.e. what formulas and variable(s) are to be used to calculate "Weighted Average Life of Loans". Additional clarification would provide continuity between all BHC's for consistency, instead of each BHC providing their own interpretation of the instructions as written. Additionally, the ability to code for this variable without an updated published data dictionary and XSD file makes this a difficult task to have coding implemented and tested for the March 31, 2020 submission deadline in doubt. Thanks for your attention to this matter. A: The firm should use an appropriate model for calculating weighted-average life of loans that is consistent with current accounting guidelines and the firm's own modeling framework. (FRB Response: April 21, 2021) Q (Y140001210, A.7 – U.S. Other Consumer): The firm's interpretation of the requirement lead us to have our CECL team develop the WAL's at the loan level for the required loans. The corresponding CECL models are executed four times per year on the mid-month of a quarter. Given this is our primary data source for WAL's, the firm will replicate the mid-month WAL loan level information into the first and third month of the quarter. The schedule instructions do not directly address this application of data specifically, but the firm's management believes it is both accurate and appropriate in order to avoid supplying two-months of every quarter with blank or missing data. A: The firm should use an appropriate model for calculating weighted-average life of loans that is consistent with current accounting guidelines and the firm's own modeling framework. (FRB Response: April 21, 2021) Q (Y140001199, A.7 – U.S. Other Consumer): We also received another question from the firm, this time regarding the Weighted Average Life of Loans being added to the US Other Consumer Loans schedule. In the instructions it states, "It should reflect the weighted average of time to principal actual repayment (as modeled) for all positions in the segment, rounded to the nearest monthly term." The firm would like some clarity on which internal model they should be pulling from and from there when calculating this for each segment, what formula/approach should they use? Insight on how this data will be used would be helpful for the firm. A: The firm should use an appropriate model for calculating weighted-average life of loans that is consistent with current accounting guidelines and the firm's own modeling framework. (FRB Response: April 21, 2021) Q (Y140001300, A.9 – U.S. Small Business): Can you confirm for us that for the 6/30/2020 FR Y-14Q, all Small Business Administration loans which are part of the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) should be populated in Schedules A8 and A9 (Retail International and US Small Business) and not in the Schedules H1 and H2 (Wholesale CIL and CRE)? A: For 2020:Q2 FR Y-14Q reporting, do not include Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans in Schedule A.8 (International Small Business), Schedule A.9 (US Small Business), Schedule H (Wholesale) or Schedule M (Balances). For 2020:Q2, please only report PPP loan balances within Schedule K (Supplemental). From 2020:Q3 to 2021:Q1, the $ under federally guaranteed programs summary variable (B.13) was added to FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 (U.S. Small Business) to capture small business PPP loans. From 2020:Q3 to 2021:Q1, report PPP loan balances within Schedule M (line item 2.b.(1), Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans, was added to Schedule M). Beginning in 2021:Q2, firms should only report PPP loan balances in Schedule K. (FRB Response: April 14, 2021) Q (Y140001129, A.10 – Student): Schedule A.10 of the FR Y-14Q segments a bank's student loan portfolio and reports variables related to each segment. Summary variables B.11 through B.17 describe the segment population based on the Cohort Default Rate of the student's school. B.15 reports the total unpaid principal balance of the segment that has a CDR within 8% through 9.99% as of month-end, while B.16 reports the total unpaid principal balance of the segment that has a CDR above 10%. However, the existing attributes do not address which summary variable would include loans within the segment where the CDR is equal to 10%. Please provide clarification if the unpaid principal balance of loans with a CDR = 10% should be reported in summary variable B.15, B.16, or B.17. A: In the case where the CDR is equal to 10 percent, please report into category B.16. $ CDR > 10%. (FRB Response: April 14, 2021) Q (Y140000950, A.10 – Student): The report instructions for Section B Line 6 require reporting of the total dollar amount disbursed during the month. For the student loans we disburse in a given month, we may receive refunds from colleges due to various reasons (e.g. not all the money is needed as the student drops out of classes, etc) in the subsequent months. We would like to ask for clarification as to whether we should report in Line 6 only the amounts we disbursed OR disbursements minus any refunds received during the month. For example, we have disbursed a total of $100 million of student loans in August 2018. In August 2018, we have also received refunds totaling $20 million that had been disbursed in previous months. For Section B Line 6, should we report the $100 million, which represents the gross amount of disbursement in August 2018? Or should we report $80 million, which represents the total disbursements, net of total refunds received in August 2018? FR Y-14Q Schedule A.10 (Student Loan) Section B Line 6 ($ New disbursements) Instructions 6. $ New disbursements – The total dollar amount disbursed in the given month for the segment as of month-end. A: Please report the disbursements minus any refunds received during the month. (FRB Response: April 14, 2021) Q (Y140001318, A.9 – U.S. Small Business): How should the Firm report PPP loans in FR-Y14Q Schedule A.9 as of September 30, 2020? Background: The general instructions for Schedule A.9 state that firms should "include all 'scored' or 'delinquency managed' small business domestic loans." Unlike standard SBA loans, PPP loans are fully guaranteed by the SBA and pursuant to the PPP program requirements, institutions providing PPP loans are not required to undertake a credit underwriting process that is required of most other loans. As a result, these loans are not rated and the credit quality of the business entity receiving the loan are not evaluated. Since PPP loans are not scored or delinquency managed, they do not conform to the historical reporting requirements for Schedule A.9 and do not meet the reporting system criteria for the firm's reporting of this schedule. Additionally, the revised instructions issued in July (the Proposal) require the firms to report PPP loans in Schedule A.9, which is designated as the Retail schedule for the report, however PPP loans may have both retail and wholesale counterparties. Firms are expected to report the full population of PPP loans in Schedule A.9, as the Proposal states that this new temporary collection is in place "[i]n order to identify loans fully guaranteed by the U.S. government, such as loans associated with the PPP." As a result, this would require the firms to commingle wholesale and retail data within the retail schedule. Further, for Schedule A.9 the firms are instructed to segment the portfolio based on segment variables such as product type, age, original commercially available credit bureau score or equivalent, delinquency status, and secured or unsecured. As noted above, given that PPP loans are originated outside the typical origination process for Small Business loans, the Firm may not have the metrics available for all of the relevant segment variables to assign segments for the full PPP population consistent with the instructions for Schedule A.9. Similarly, as most PPP loans would not be expected to be currently delinquent and will be segmented as "N/A" for the purposes of the original commercially available credit bureau score or equivalent, it is likely that the data for PPP loans from these segment variables will not provide the Federal Reserve (the FRB) with meaningful information as the PPP loan population is relatively homogenous in terms of the requested segmentation. In order to accommodate the revised instructions to report PPP loans in Schedule A.9, the Firm would be required to make operationally burdensome coding changes to capture data that the Federal Reserve currently anticipates will only be required on a temporary basis. The information collected under such revised instructions would also comingle the wholesale data within the retail schedule. Lastly the proposed revised instructions would not be providing the FRB with meaningful segment variable information. The Firm had coordinated with the industry to provide similar comments that have been submitted by the Bank Policy Institute (BPI) to the FRB on August 17, 2020. In response to the FR Y-14Q temporary revised instructions, the Firm submitted FAQ ID Y140001297 to highlight these considerations to the Board. The Firm appreciates the clarification provided by the FRB in FAQ Y140001217 which permitted firms to report all PPP loans in Schedule K at June 30, 2020. The Firm will apply that same guidance to our 3Q 2020 reporting and continue with that practice until further clarification from the FRB to this FAQ or the BPI comment letter. If the FRB responds to our FAQ with specific reporting instructions which require us to change our proposed approach, the Firm will require 60 days to implement the coding logic changes in our reporting systems. A: Beginning in 2020:Q3, per the updated FR Y-14Q instructions, the $ under federally guaranteed programs summary variable (B.13) has been added to FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 U.S. Small Business to capture small business PPP loans. The Federal Register notice associated with these revisions was clear that firms should report PPP loans in this new item on Schedule A.9. In 2020:Q3, please report PPP loan balances as instructed. (FRB Response: March 17, 2021) Q (Y140001239, General): I had a question on the Weighted Average Life field that is to be reported on the FR Y-14Q 2020Q1 Retail submission. What format is the FED expecting for this field? Are we to report the value in months as (ex. 1.59 x 12 = 19 or 19.07)? A: Please report the value rounded to the nearest month. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001217, A.9 – U.S. Small Business): In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the SBA has initiated the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) which allows certain organizations affected by COVID-19 to apply for funding through an approved lender. When originating these PPP loans, firms are instructed by the SBA to abstain from normal underwriting practices which would entail grading or scoring a loan. As these loans are neither scored or graded, how should firms report these loans in the FR Y-14Q? Should the exposures be included in the FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 Small Business or in Schedule H.1 Corporate Loans (subject to reporting thresholds)? A: For 2020:Q2 FR Y-14Q reporting, do not include Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans in Schedule A.9 U.S. Small Business, Schedule H Wholesale Risk, or Schedule M Balances. For 2020:Q2, please only report PPP loan balances within Schedule K Supplemental. Beginning in 2020:Q3, per the updated FR Y-14Q instructions, the $ under federally guaranteed programs summary variable (B.13) has been added to FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 U.S. Small Business to capture small business PPP loans. In 2020:Q3 (and beyond), report PPP loan balances within Schedule M Balances (beginning in 2020:Q3, line item 2.b.(1), Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans has been added to Schedule M Balances). (FRB Response: July 29, 2020) Q (Y140001218, General): How should firms report loans in forbearance programs as a result of COVID-19 on the FR Y-14Q and FR Y-14M reports? A: Due to the current economic climate as a result of COVID-19, firms may experience an increase in the number of loans in forbearance programs. Consistent with the instructions and with the Interagency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the Coronavirus , firms should follow the guidance below when reporting loans in forbearance programs on the FR Y-14Q and FR Y-14M. FR Y-14Q Schedule A.2 (U.S. Auto Loan) Firms should report any forbearance program balances in B.26 ($ Loss mitigation) Schedules A.8 (International Small Business) and A.9 (U.S. Small Business) Firms should report any forbearance program balances in B.6 ($ Modifications) Schedule A.10 (Student Loan) Firms should report any forbearance program balances in B.10 ($ of Unpaid principal balance in forbearance) FR Y-14M Schedule A (Domestic First Lien Closed-end 1–4 Family Residential Loan) Firms should report Line item 77 (Workout Type Completed) as "9 = Forbearance plan" (only if the loss mitigation effort has been successfully completed in the reporting month) Line Item 85 (Loss Mitigation Performance Status) as "1 = Active and Performing" Schedule B (Domestic Home Equity Loan and Home Equity Line) Firms should report Line item 61 (Workout Type Completed) as "8 = Other" (only if the loss mitigation effort has been successfully completed in the reporting month) Line Item 89 (Loss Mitigation Performance Status) as "1 = Active and Performing" Schedule D (Domestic Credit Card Data Collection) Firms should report Line item 102 (Credit Card Workout Program) as "1," which indicates the account entered into any type of workout program during the current reporting month Line item 103 (Workout Program Type) as "3 – Internal Temporary Program," which indicates an internal program where terms are temporarily modified, not to exceed 12 months, in recognition of short term hardship ( FRB Response: April 15, 2020 ) Q (Y140000677, General): 1. Throughout the Schedule A sub-schedules of FR Y-14Q, unpaid principal balances (UPB) are reported in several summary variables. Should the UPB variables be reported gross of any accounting-based write-downs or charge-offs consistently across all Schedule A sub-schedules? 2. Does "accounting-based write-downs" refer to any write-downs or charge-off that do not legally reduce the principal balances? A: For purposes of reporting unpaid principal balances (UPB) on the FR Y-14Q, Schedule A, report the UPB gross of any accounting-based write-downs or charge-offs. Accounting-based write downs refer to write-downs or charge-offs that do not legally reduce the principal balance. (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000700, A.3 – International Credit Card): Please clarify what types of loans should be reported on Schedule A.3 – International Credit Cards. If a BHC does not have any full service international branches; however, offers credit cards to foreign students with non-U.S. addresses. Would these specific credit card loans be reported on Schedule A.3 – International Credit Cards or on the FR Y-14M Schedule D – Domestic Credit Cards? A: For the purposes of reporting loans on Schedule A.3, follow the FR Y-9C definition for loans domiciled outside the U.S. Specifically, reference "Domicile" in the FR Y-9C Glossary, where it states: "If other addresses are used for correspondence or other purposes, only the principal address, insofar as it is known to the reporting holding company, should be used in determining whether a customer should be regarded as a U.S. or non-U.S. addressee." (FRB Response: October 11, 2017) Q (Y140000680, A.7 – U.S. Other Consumer): This question is a follow up to a prior Q&A with guidance provided for balances of "partially secured" loans should be split into "secured" and "unsecured" portions and should be reported accordingly. Our firm's follow up question is if the amount of loan secured is unknown systemically, to be conservative, is it acceptable practice to classify these loans as unsecured? A: The firm should make every effort to report the Y-14Q accurately by breaking down the secured and unsecured portion of the balances. However, if this is impossible, a loan that is partially secured may be reported as unsecured. (FRB Response: October 11, 2017) Schedule B—Securities Q (Y140000971, B.2 - Securities 2 ("Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges")): In case where redesignation of hedges occurs multiple times during a quarter (e.g., daily redesignation of FX hedges) on a single investment security, how should the Firm report the effective and ineffective portions of cumulative gains and losses of the hedging instruments in Data Field #14 and #15 on Schedule B.2 of FR Y-14Q, respectively? a. Report only the effective and ineffective portion of gains and losses from the last hedge relationship in the quarter, or b. Report the effective and ineffective portions from ALL hedge relationships during the quarter A: Report the effective portions of cumulative gains and losses as of the end of the quarter. Note that the question refers to a now-outdated data field; Data Field #15 of the FR Y-14Q's Schedule B.2 (Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges) currently captures "ASU 2017-12 Hedge Designations" and no longer captures the ineffective portions of cumulative gains and losses. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001046, B.1 - Securities 1 ("Main Schedule")): Effective May 2019, Firms will have the option to exchange their current Fannie Mae MBS and Freddie Mac MBS securities for Universal Mortgage Backed Securities (UMBS). We would like to know what the correct reportable value is for the purchase date in FRY-14Q Schedule B. Do we disclose the purchase date of the original Fannie/Freddie CUSIP or the date of the exchange of the UMBS CUSIP? A: The reported purchase date for a uniform mortgage-backed security (UMBS) on the FR Y-14Q's Schedule B.1 (Main Schedule) should be the date on which a given UMBS was acquired by exchange. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001263, B.1 – Securities 1 ("Main Schedule")): FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 instructions for the "Purchase Date" field includes the following: "The purchase date should be the date associated with the amortized cost and book yield of the security (exclude for equity and mutual fund securities)." Please clarify whether this instruction allows us to leave this field blank for equity securities and mutual funds reported in Schedule B.1. If the purchase date is required for equity securities, how should this be reported in situations where a security has been reclassified from "non-marketable" to "marketable"? For example, a non-marketable private equity investment is reclassified to a publicly traded equity investment reportable on Schedule B after the investee has an Initial Public Offering (IPO). Another example is a publicly traded equity investment for which trading has been suspended and subsequently reinstated, resulting in a move to non-marketable (out of scope for Schedule B) and back to marketable (back in scope for Schedule B). For these examples above, which of the two options below should be used as the "Purchase Date"? The date that we purchased the investment in its original form. The date that the investment is reclassified from a non-marketable equity to marketable equity (i.e. IPO date, or date of reclassification as a marketable security). A: The purchase date is not required for equities and mutual funds. (FRB Response: April 17, 2025) Q (Y140001127, B.1 – Securities 1 ("Main Schedule")): Should firms report currency code CNH or CNY when reporting offshore traded RMB bonds when reporting Currency denomination on FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 – Securities 1? Background: The currency code CNH was introduced to differentiate between the Renminbi (RMB – China) bonds traded offshore from those traded onshore, currency code CNY, in mainland China as the FX spot rates and yield curves are different. Although not currently an ISO 4217 currency code, CNH is widely used for offshore RMB bonds. However, per the FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 instructions, "Currency" should be reported as, "the currency denomination of contractual payments on the security, or for an equity security, the currency in which it trades in its principal exchange, using the standard ISO 4217 three-letter currency code (e.g., USD, EUR, GBP, CAD, etc.)." For RMB bonds traded offshore, the Firm currently uses CNH as the currency code when reporting "Currency" on FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 and will continue to do so unless instructed otherwise. A: Per the FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 instructions, report using the standard ISO 4217 currency code. Currently, CNY is the ISO 4217 currency code for the Chinese Yuan Renminbi, and CNH is not an ISO 4217 currency code. (FRB Response: April 17, 2025) Q (Y140001726, B.2 – Securities 2 (“Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges”)): How should firms report portfolio layer method (PLM) hedges on FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.2 (Securities 2 – Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges)? A: This information supersedes the guidance in Q&A Y140001722. U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)-qualifying fair value hedges that are PLMs should be reported on Schedule B.2. To ensure consistency with the current reporting structure for FR Y-14Q, Schedule B, link the PLM hedges in Schedule B.2 with securities holdings in FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.1 (Securities 1 – Main Schedule) that are part of the closed portfolio. If multiple hedging relationships apply to a single security holding, list each hedging relationship affecting the security in a separate row of Schedule B.2, repeating relevant details about the hedged security. The amortized cost and market value of each record in Schedule B.2 must equal the amortized cost and market value recorded for the corresponding unique ID found in FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.1 (Securities 1 – Main Schedule). The only exception is if the amount in Schedule B.1 contains trade lots or holdings that are not part of the hedging relationship, in which case only include the amortized cost and market value of the holdings of the security that are hedged under the qualifying hedging relationship. For Field 9 (Hedge Percentage), indicate, in the case of a designated fair value hedge, the portion of the asset being hedged, as determined according to ASC 815-20-25-12 (b) and ASC 815-20-25-12A. Enter a decimal value. If the hedge is allocated to 100 percent of the security’s notional or 100 percent of the hedged risk associated with the investment amounts reported in Fields 3 (Amortized Cost) and 4 (Market Value) of securities Schedule B.2, enter a value of 1. For hedges that are currently active, the sum of hedge percentage values for each record on Schedule B.2 corresponding to a given Schedule B.1 unique ID should not exceed 1. For example, consider a closed portfolio where the outstanding notional of all assets in the portfolio is equal to $100. Note this $100 is comprised of all assets in the closed portfolio, which could include both AFS securities and any assets that are not AFS securities. However, in this example, all assets in the portfolio are AFS securities. The closed portfolio has two layers, J and K. Each layer contains the same three unique IDs corresponding to three AFS securities, which are denoted by 111, 222, and 333. Layer J has a 5-year spot-starting swap with a notional of $40, and layer K has a 10-year spot-starting swap with a notional of $30. To report the corresponding entries in Schedule B.2 for this example, a firm would include a line item for each unique ID included in a given layer of the closed portfolio. Layer J has three unique IDs, and layer K has the same three unique IDs, resulting in six line items in Schedule B.2. The Hedge Percentage can be computed based on notional by dividing the swap outstanding notional of the corresponding layer by the outstanding notional of all assets in the closed portfolio. Alternatively, the Hedge Percentage can be computed based on hedged risk by treating the hedging instrument as the swap and the hedged item as the closed portfolio. In this example, for layer J, unique IDs 111, 222, and 333 would each have their own line item on Schedule B.2, each with a Hedge Percentage of $40/$100 = 0.4, and for layer K, unique IDs 111, 222, and 333 would each have their own line item, each with a Hedge Percentage of $30/$100 = 0.3. Example of corresponding entries on Schedule B.2 Unique ID Amortized Cost Hedge Percentage 111 10 0.4 222 30 0.4 333 60 0.4 111 10 0.3 222 30 0.3 333 60 0.3 (FRB Response: February 13, 2025) Q (Y140001722, B.2 – Securities 2 ("Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges")): How should firms report portfolio layer method (PLM) hedges on FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.2 (Securities 2 – Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges)? A: Q&A Y140001722 has been superseded by Q&A Y140001726. U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)-qualifying fair value hedges that are PLMs should be reported on Schedule B.2. To ensure consistency with the current reporting structure for FR Y-14Q, Schedule B, link the PLM hedges in Schedule B.2 with securities holdings in FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.1 (Securities 1 – Main Schedule) that are part of the closed portfolio. If multiple hedging relationships apply to a single security holding, list each hedging relationship affecting the security in a separate row of Schedule B.2, repeating relevant details about the hedged security. The amortized cost and market value of each record in Schedule B.2 must equal the amortized cost and market value recorded for the corresponding unique ID found in FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.1 (Securities 1 – Main Schedule). The only exception is if the amount in Schedule B.1 contains trade lots or holdings that are not part of the hedging relationship, in which case only include the amortized cost and market value of the holdings of the security that are hedged under the qualifying hedging relationship. For Field 9 (Hedge Percentage), indicate, in the case of a designated fair value hedge, the portion of the asset being hedged, as determined according to ASC 815-20-25-12 (b) and ASC 815-20-25-12A. Enter a decimal value. If the hedge is allocated to 100 percent of the security’s notional or 100 percent of the hedged risk associated with the investment amounts reported in Fields 3 (Amortized Cost) and 4 (Market Value) of securities Schedule B.2, enter a value of 1. For hedges that are currently active, the sum of hedge percentage values for each record on Schedule B.2 corresponding to a given Schedule B.1 unique ID should not exceed 1. For example, consider a closed portfolio where the amortized cost of all assets in the portfolio is equal to $100. Note this $100 is comprised of all assets in the closed portfolio, which could include both AFS securities and any assets that are not AFS securities. However, in this example, all assets in the portfolio are AFS securities. The closed portfolio has two layers, J and K. Each layer contains the same three unique IDs corresponding to three AFS securities, which are denoted by 111, 222, and 333. Layer J has a 5-year spot-starting swap with a notional of $40, and layer K has a 10-year spot-starting swap with a notional of $30. To report the corresponding entries in Schedule B.2 for this example, a firm would include a line item for each unique ID included in a given layer of the closed portfolio. Layer J has three unique IDs, and layer K has the same three unique IDs, resulting in six line items in Schedule B.2. The Hedge Percentage (Field 9) for a given line item in Schedule B.2 is computed by dividing the swap outstanding notional of the corresponding layer of the closed portfolio by the amortized cost of all assets in the closed portfolio. In this example, for layer J, unique IDs 111, 222, and 333 would each have their own line item on Schedule B.2, each with a Hedge Percentage of $40/$100 = 0.4, and for layer K, unique IDs 111, 222, and 333 would each have their own line item, each with a Hedge Percentage of $30/$100 = 0.3. Example of corresponding entries on Schedule B.2 Unique ID Amortized Cost Hedge Percentage 111 10 0.4 222 30 0.4 333 60 0.4 111 10 0.3 222 30 0.3 333 60 0.3 (FRB Response: January 21, 2025) Q (Y140001354, General): In March 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) tentatively decided that it would require the fair value hedge basis adjustment (FVHBA) associated with a last-of-layer hedge strategy to be presented as a reconciling item, i.e., in the aggregate for loans and available-for-sale debt securities, in disclosures required by other areas of GAAP. The decision was tentatively made so as to improve quality and comparability of data between entities and to eliminate the possibility of increase operational burden on institutions with little, if any, added value to risk management or to users of the financial statements. In turn with the FASB decisions on disclosures related to the last-of-layer standard the FRB and FFIEC have proposed incremental reporting requirement changes to the FR Y-9C and FFIEC 031/041 which will allow for the Fair Value Hedge Basis Adjustment (FVHBA) associated with last-of-layer hedging strategy to be reported in a reconciliation line items rather than allocated to individual instruments. A similar concession was not made to the FR Y-14Q (specifically, Schedule B, where hedging relationships on debt securities in a last-of-layer hedging strategy would be reportable). Accordingly, we ask the FRB to clarify the appropriate reporting representation of FVHBA if a reporting institution implements the final FASB last-of-layer standard and does not allocate the FVHBA to individual instruments? As stated in FASB Accounting Standards Update No. 2022-01, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), "Fair Value Hedging – Portfolio Layer Method" (ASU 2022-01), the portfolio layer method (PLM) allows entities to designate one or more hedged layers against a single closed portfolio of financial assets or one or more beneficial interests secured by a portfolio of financial instruments that is not expected to be affected by prepayments, defaults, or other factors affecting the timing and amount of cash flows for the designated hedge period. ASU 2022-01 replaces former last-of-layer guidance which only permitted designation of a single hedged layer. Among other topics addressed, ASU 2022-01 also clarifies the accounting for and disclosure of fair value hedge basis adjustments (FVHBA) under the PLM. Per ASU 2022-01, FVHBA are required to be maintained on a closed portfolio basis; that is, an entity should not adjust the recorded investment or the discount rate of the individual assets or individual beneficial interest included in the single, closed portfolio for a basis adjustment that is maintained on closed portfolio basis. As such, an entity that applies the PLM to a closed portfolio should not disclose the portfolio layer method FVHBA on a more disaggregated basis, except where assets included in the same closed portfolio are presented in different line items on the balance sheet. The FRB and FFIEC have adopted incremental reporting requirement changes to the FR Y-9C and to the FFIEC 031 allow for the FVHBA associated with PLM hedge strategy to be reported in reconciliation line items rather than allocated to individual instruments (Sch RC-B/HC-B line item 7 and Sch RC-C/HC-C item 11). A similar concession was not made to the FR Y-14Q. Accordingly, we ask the FRB to clarify the appropriate reporting of a PLM hedge strategy in which the reporting entity is no longer permitted to allocate the FVHBA to individual instruments. A: Portfolio Layer Method hedges should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule B.2 (Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges). The fair value hedge basis adjustment should not be allocated to the reported amortized cost of individual securities. (FRB Response: January 8, 2025) Q (Y140001613, B.2 – Securities 2 ("Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges")): Please clarify how the portfolio layer hedge basis adjustment, upon adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2022-01 Fair Value Hedging-Portfolio Layer Method (PLM), should be reported in the FR Y-14Q Schedule B.2 (Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges). Background: Post implementation of ASU 2022-01 effective January 1, 2023, the current instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule B.2 will result in the submission of incomplete information about the results of the PLM hedging activity, and provide mismatched details of the gains and losses from the hedging instrument vis-a-vis the amortized cost basis of the associated hedged securities. The related instructions for Schedule B.2 are recommended to be updated to reflect changes as a result of ASU 2022-01. The definition of Amortized Cost in current FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 (Main Schedule) is consistent with the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-B (consistent with US GAAP). Prior to ASU 2022-01, gains and losses attributable to the hedged risk would be recognized as an adjustment of the amortized cost basis of the hedged item. Such basis adjustments would be reflected consistently in the amortized cost reported by security category in the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-B, lines 1-6 and in the FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1. Under ASU 2022-01, a firm is explicitly prohibited from adjusting the amortized cost basis for the gains and losses attributable to the hedged risk of the individual securities which are included in the closed portfolio of hedged items. The firm that applies PLM to a closed portfolio of securities should not allocate the portfolio layer fair value hedge basis adjustments (PLFVHBA) to an individual security. PLFVHBA should be reported in the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-B, line item 7, Unallocated portfolio layer fair value hedge basis adjustments in Column C. The current instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedules B.1 and B.2. have not been updated to reflect ASU 2022-01 implementation. Therefore, it's reasonable to expect that FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 Amortized Cost should exclude unallocated PLFVHBA, consistently with FR Y-9C Schedule HC-B, lines 1-6. Since FR Y-14Q Schedule B.2 instructions requires that the Amortized Cost amount reported in Field 3 ("Amortized Cost") for each hedged security be equal to the Amortized Cost amount reported in Schedule B.1. it's expected that Amortized Cost reported in Schedule B.2, Field 3 Amortized Cost should also exclude PLFVHBA. However, this would create conflicts within FR Y-14Q Schedule B.2 between Field 3 Amortized Cost and Field 14 ("Effective Portion of Cumulative Gains and Losses"), which is expected to include gains and losses from the hedging instrument. If the firm were to report the gains and losses from the hedging instrument in Field, 14, disaggregated by individual securities, but not the corresponding losses and gains on the hedged risk in Field 3, Amortized Cost this may potentially result in firms reporting outsized gains and losses from the hedging instrument vis-a-vis the amortized cost basis of the associated hedged securities. This may in turn potentially skew the assessment of the firm's potential total net loss from securities hedged under PLM in the CCAR projection scenarios. We therefore seek clarity in how to report the PLFVHBA in Schedule B.2 attributed to the hedged risk on the individual securities which are included in the closed portfolio of hedged items. Meanwhile we plan to continue to exclude the PLFVHBA from the FR Y-14Q Schedules B.1 and B.2 till the FRB clarifies the reporting. A: The amortized costs reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule B.1 (Main Schedule) and B.2 (Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges) should not include the portfolio layer fair value hedge basis adjustment. (FRB Response: January 8, 2025) Q (Y140001696, General): How are portfolio layer method (PLM) hedges captured in the FR Y-14 reports and securities models in the stress test? A: Certain hedges that qualify for hedge accounting treatment under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) offset gains or losses associated with other comprehensive income from securities in the supervisory stress test. PLMs are an extension of last-of-layer hedging that can qualify for offsetting hedge accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The current data collection used to support securities modeling was designed to capture more traditional hedges and does not consistently and comprehensively capture PLMs. The Board is considering whether to authorize additional data collections to better capture these portfolio hedges for a future supervisory stress test. (FRB Response: August 28, 2024) Q (Y140001562, B.2 – Securities 2 ("Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges")): In circumstances where the firm has an interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge against the risk of changes in cash flows generated by an open pool of securities, would each individual security eligible for the pool (e.g. $1.0B outstanding par) or only a selection of the eligible securities sufficient enough to support the hedging instrument (e.g. $500M notional value of the derivative trade) be reported within FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.2? Currently, the relevant instructions note "...if a portfolio hedge is used to hedge more than one security under a single hedging relationship, please list each of the hedged security holdings in separate rows alongside the characteristics and allocable amount of the associated portfolio hedging instrument. If a hedging instrument hedges an investment security and also hedges assets that are not investment securities, report the amount allocable to the investment security (or securities) being hedged." A: In the provided example, the firm should only report those securities that the $500 million notional is being allocated to. (FRB Response: October 12, 2022) Q (Y140001561, B.1 – Securities 1 ("Main Schedule")): For the purposes of reporting on the FR Y-14Q, Schedule B.1 - Securities, what is the appropriate Security Description for securities owned by an investment fund (e.g., Mutual Fund, Exchange Traded Fund, Small Business Investment Company , etc.) that is consolidated by the holding company (or by another subsidiary of the holding company) where the securities of the fund are consolidated on the holding company's balance sheet? This may occur, for example, where the fund is a variable interest entity and the holding company is the primary beneficiary, therefore the holding company consolidates the fund. Should the reporter look through the fund and report the individual security holdings of the fund separately or should the holdings be reported in the aggregate based on the nature of the consolidated fund? If reporting in the aggregate is appropriate, should holdings in an Exchange Traded Fund and other funds without a Security Description be reported in the "Other" Security Description? We note that the only fund Security Description available is "Mutual Fund". A: The Security Description for the securities described in the firm's question should be reported at the individual security level. (FRB Response: September 20, 2022) Q (Y140001148, B.2 – Securities 2 ("Investment Securities with Designated Accounting Hedges")): Schedule B.2 field 8 ‘Hedge Interest Rate' instructions state: "For Hedges of interest rate risk, indicate the benchmark interest rates from among those eligible under ASC 815-20-25-6A and other relevant guidance." Allowed values include ‘2 = London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)' and ‘4 = Other.' EURIBOR is a benchmark rate that is used for certain Euro denominated exposures, and has many similarities to LIBOR in that both are unsecured interbank lending rates that are calculated daily and reflect offered rates on the interbank market. Please confirm a value of 2 (LIBOR) is appropriate for field 8 reporting when EURIBOR is the benchmark interest rate. A: Please enter "4 = Other" when EURIBOR is the benchmark interest rate. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Schedule C—Regulatory Capital Instruments Q (Y140000830, C.3 – Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instruments Issuances during Quarter): In December 2017, the general instructions for Schedule C.3, Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instruments Issuances During Quarter, were revised in the following manner: Deleted: "Issuances of common stock associated with employee compensation plans should be reported on this worksheet as well. This includes de novo issuances of common stock associated with employee compensation plans as well as treasury stock re-issuances associated with employee compensation plans. Please note in the comments whether the issuance is de novo or from treasury stock." Added: "Increases in APIC resulting from employee stock compensation-related drivers should not be captured in sub-schedule C.3." From these revisions we understood that the issuances of common stock and increases in APIC resulting from employee stock compensation-related drivers should not be included in Schedule C.3. However, the instructions for Schedule C.3, Column C, Instrument type, were also revised as follows "This item should also indicate where common stock is related to employee compensation (Common Stock – Employee Stock Compensation) ...." . This new instruction contradicts the revision in the general instructions for Schedule C.3. Our current practice is to capture net changes in total Shareholder's Equity due to the issuance of treasury stock associated with employee compensation plans and the increases and decreases in APIC as a result of employee stock compensation related drivers such as amortization of employee rewards, payroll taxes on employee benefits etc. Please clarify if employee stock-compensation related drivers, including treasury stock re-issuances and changes in APIC, should or should not be captured in Schedule C.3? A: The FR Y-14Q, Schedule C (Regulatory Capital Instruments), sub-schedules C.2 (Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instrument Repurchases/Redemptions During Quarter) and C.3 (Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instruments Issuances During Quarter) collect only data on direct issuance and redemption activities (e.g., at the end of a deferred stock vesting period, when an instrument is issued to an employee). Where a specific issuance or repurchase/redemption of a capital instrument relates to employee stock compensation, Column C in sub-schedule C.2 and C.3 should capture this. However, there may be several accounting adjustments that drive changes to APIC as an award vests and when it is issued (e.g., issuing the share from treasury stock whose recorded value is other than the prevailing market share price). The C.2 and C.3 sub-schedules should capture only the total financial impact of direct issuances and redemptions (i.e., par plus surplus) and not include any inter-period accounting adjustments (e.g., accrued APIC over the vesting period). (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001626, C.2 – Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instrument Repurchases/Redemptions During Quarter): Per the FR Y-14Q, Schedule C instructions, increases and decreases in APIC resulting from employee stock compensation-related drivers should not be captured in C.2 and C.3. Does this include increases and decreases in Treasury Stock resulting from employee stock compensation-related drivers? If not, we note the instructions allow for "Common Stock – Employee Stock Compensation" as an option for Column C – Instrument Type in both subschedules C.2 and C.3 – when would this selection be applicable? Please advise. A: The FR Y-14Q, Schedule C (Regulatory Capital Instruments), sub-schedules C.2 (Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instrument Repurchases/Redemptions During Quarter) and C.3 (Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instruments Issuances During Quarter) collect only data on direct issuance and redemption activities (e.g., at the end of a deferred stock vesting period, when an instrument is issued to an employee). Where a specific issuance or repurchase/redemption of a capital instrument relates to employee stock compensation, Column C in sub-schedule C.2 and C.3 should capture this. However, there may be several accounting adjustments that drive changes to APIC as an award vests and when it is issued (e.g., issuing the share from treasury stock whose recorded value is other than the prevailing market share price). The C.2 and C.3 sub-schedules should capture only the total financial impact of direct issuances and redemptions (i.e., par plus surplus) and not include any inter-period accounting adjustments (e.g., accrued APIC over the vesting period). (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001620, C.2 – Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instrument Repurchases/Redemptions During Quarter): Our Capital Plan captures approved own share repurchases. When we repurchase our own shares we report the repurchases in Schedule C.2 (Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instrument Repurchases / Redemptions During Quarter), as well as in Schedule D (Regulatory Capital) line 30 "Repurchases of Common Stock." Under the Inflation Reduction Act, effective January 1, 2023 we are now required to accrue an excise tax equal to 1% of the FMV of stock repurchases less stock issued during the year. The question is whether we should include the excise tax in our reported amount of share repurchases in Schedule C.2 and Schedule D line 30. A: In their capital plan and FR Y-14 submissions, firms should treat excise taxes on share repurchases in accordance with how they are recorded in their GAAP statements. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001568, C.1 – Regulatory Capital Instruments As of Quarter End): The firm would like to request additional clarification on the exclusion of TRUPS instruments in FR Y-14Q Schedule C (Regulatory Capital Instruments) filing. Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS) has been fully phased out from Tier 2 capital and is considered to be a non-qualifying capital instrument. Should this security be excluded from the FRY-14Q Schedule C.1 quarterly submission? A: Consistent with the FR Y-14Q Instructions, Schedule C, "General Guidance," Schedule C collects data regarding only (1) funded instruments included in regulatory capital in the form of Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital, and (2) subordinated debt instruments and their related hedging instruments as included in FR Y-9C line item BHCK4062, regardless of whether or not they are included in regulatory capital. If the TRUPS instruments in question are not included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and are not included as subordinated debt in FR Y-9C line item BHCK4062, they should be excluded from the FR Y-14Q Schedule C. (FRB Response: April 17, 2025) Q (Y140001593, C.1 – Regulatory Capital Instruments As Of Quarter End): FR Y-14Q Schedule C.1 Column J calls for reporting the dollar amount of unamortized discounts/ premiums, fees, and foreign exchange translation impact associated with the instrument at quarter end. For subordinated debt with multiple interest rate swaps, report the sums of the full amounts of unamortized discounts/ premiums, fees, and foreign exchange translation impact associated with the underlying note at quarter end. Report the amount with a positive sign for the unamortized amount of the discount and a negative sign for the unamortized amount of the premium. Working through the Carrying Value calculation our view is that these instructions include the wrong signage convention as we believe discounts should be reported as negative. Please confirm signage for this field. A: As per the FR Y-14Q, Schedule C (Regulatory Capital Instruments) instructions, the unamortized amount of the discount should be reported with a positive sign, and the unamortized amount of the premium should be reported with a negative sign. (FRB Response: January 17, 2024) Q (Y140001596, General): For common and preferred stock reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule C, what should be reported in Schedule C as the notional amount for common and preferred stock? Should this be the same as the amount recognized in regulatory capital for these two particular instruments? A: The notional dollar amount of common stock and preferred stock regulatory capital instruments should be listed in the "notional amount" columns. This may not necessarily be identical to the amount recognized in regulatory capital; for example, there are limitations in the amount of common share instruments giving rise to minority interest that may be recognized in regulatory capital. (FRB Response: December 20, 2023) Q (Y140001331, General): Per the FR Y-14Q Schedule C – Regulatory Capital Instruments instructions, increases and decreases in additional paid in capital (APIC) resulting from employee stock compensation-related drivers should not be captured in sub-schedules C.3 – Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instruments Issuances During Quarter and C.2 – Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instrument Repurchases/Redemptions During Quarter, respectively. We've noted, however, that FR Y-14A instructions state that quarterly redemption/repurchase activity and quarterly issuance activity must include increases and decreases in APIC attributable to the amortization of employee stock compensation and any changes in APIC, treasury or common stock as a result of the actual issuance of common stock for the employee stock compensation. We recognize the specific change in instruction from 12/31/2017 that altered the presentation of the FR Y-14Q; however, please confirm whether this was a deliberate change in instruction that resulted in this difference in presentation between the FR Y-14Q and the FR Y-14A? A: Complete the Y-14A and Y-14Q as described in the instructions. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140000719, C.1 – Regulatory Capital Instruments As of Quarter End): Per FRB FR Y-14Q Schedule C2 instructions: "Do not use this worksheet to report decreases in the amount of any capital instrument that are the result of amortizations of the remaining balance of the instrument. Any changes due to amortizations of instruments that occurred during the quarter should be reflected in the balances of those instruments as reported on the C.1–Regulatory Capital and Subordinated Debt Instruments as of Quarter End worksheet." Can you clarify how amortization should be reported on C1? The instructions for C1 do not specify how amortization should be reported. A: Any changes due to the amortization of the remaining balance of an instrument that occurred during the quarter should be reflected in the balances of those instruments as reported in column G of Schedule C.1 of the FR Y-14Q. Column G requires a BHC to report the dollar amount of the instrument that qualified as regulatory capital as of quarter end, which incorporates the amortization of instruments pursuant to section 217.20(d)(iv) of Regulation Q. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Schedule D—Regulatory Capital Transitions Q (Y140001178, General): Please confirm that the Federal Reserve intends BHCs to report on lines 1 / 2 the gross amount of non-significant investments [before offsetting related short positions] in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of: common stock, additional tier 1, and tier 2 capital [for line 1] and common stock [for line 2]. The reason for this inquiry is that the Line 4 calculation (greater of item 2 minus item 3 or zero) will not necessarily yield an appropriate approximation of the full calculation specified in 12 CFR 217.22(c)(4) if Line 2 is reported on a gross basis as opposed to a net long basis. A: As described in 12 C.F.R. 217.22(h), the firm should report gross non-significant investments as a net long position. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140000722, General): Will the FRB eliminate the FR Y-14Q – RCT Schedule D in 2018 since the fully-phased-in deductions will have reached 100%? This question has also been raised in light of the fact that the FRB has announced that RCT Schedule D will be eliminated from the FR Y-14A in Sept 2017. A: At this time, the Federal Reserve has not proposed eliminating the FR Y-14Q, Schedule D (RCT). (FRB Response: November 29, 2017) Schedule E—Operational Risk Q (Y140001089, E.1 – Operational Loss History): The firm would like to obtain further clarification on the treatment of negative values within the gross loss amount. The FR Y-14Q Operational Risk Schedule E.1 instructions state that the Gross Loss Amount cannot be reported as a negative value, except cases where it represents a decrease in reserve. Based on this instruction, the firm is unsure of how to report the negative values that are not related to decreases in reserves. Below is an illustrative example of a negative loss that is not related to a decrease in reserve: ~ Trading error gain: Due to an issue with the trading system, 2 trades were executed incorrectly. Once the trades were corrected the next day, one trade resulted in a loss of $100,000 while the other trade resulted in a gain of $30,000. For this event, there will be 2 transactions, one for $100,000 loss and one for $30,000 gain (or negative loss). The total negative losses that are not related to decreases in reserves is less than 0.1% of overall losses within the E.1 submission. However, the firm would like to better understand how these negative losses should be reported for the FR Y-14Q Operational Risk Schedule E.1 submissions to ensure full compliance with the instructions. Can the firm exclude Gross Loss Amounts with a negative value not related to reserves from future FR Y-14Q Operational Risk Schedule E.1 submissions? A: According to the FR Y-14Q instructions, "situations where an operational risk related failure results in a financial gain" should not be included in the institution's complete FR Y-14Q Schedule E.1. (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001377, General): Guidance and confirmation is respectfully requested on the treatment of how new operational risk events for divested businesses should be treated for regulatory reporting purposes on the FR Y-14Q Schedule E (Operational Risk). Should new operational risk events for divested businesses be reported, or should divested businesses be excluded from Schedule E reporting? A: According to the instructions for FR Y-14Q, Schedule E, the firm should submit a complete history of losses at and above the institution's established collection threshold(s). New operational loss events from divested businesses should be included with Schedule E so long as they resulted in operational losses to the firm. (FRB Response: November 27, 2024) Q (Y140001695, E.1 – Operational Loss History): Should the Firm report uncollected revenue in FR Y-14Q Schedule E.1 (Operational Loss History) as part of the Gross Loss Amount (GLA) calculation? A: All expenses associated with an operational loss event, except for the noted exceptions, should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule E.1 (Operational Loss History). This would include revenue that was earned by the firm but not collected due to an operational loss event. Foregone revenue, including the inability to earn revenue or collect potential future revenues as a result of an operational loss event, is one of the exceptions and should not be included on the schedule. (FRB Response: November 13, 2024) Q (Y140001335, E.1 – Operational Loss History): Our institution has completed the sale of one of our entities to another financial institution on September 1, 2020. Per the FRB instructions, Schedule E-Operational Risk captures historical operational losses data and because the entity was sold before quarter ended (Sept 30) we believe that we should not continue reporting Operational Risk historical data for this entity in Schedule E as of Q3 2020 and going forward. We have reviewed the FR Y-14Q requirements and Q&A and noticed that currently there are no instructions under this type of scenario (entity sale), therefore we would like to consult with the Board. Please review our request and let us know how to proceed with the Schedule E – Operational Risk reporting. A: According to the instructions for FR Y-14Q, Schedule E (Operational Risk), the firm should “submit a complete history of operational losses at and above the institution's established collection threshold(s).” This instruction also applies to the loss history of entities that have been sold. (FRB Response: March 10, 2021) Q (Y140000770, E.1 – Operational Loss History): Excluding historical OR loss data: (a) In general, are firms allowed to exclude or scale down historical OR losses reported in Sch E.1 for products or services the firm no longer provides? (b) More specifically, prior to the formation of the IHC in July 2016, several businesses were de-risked and products/services no longer provided in the entities that now comprise the IHC. Should the historical OR losses associated with those products/services have transitioned to the IHC and be reported in the Sch E.1 even if the products/services were never actually part of the IHC as of its formation in July 2016? A: (a) No, firms should not exclude or scale down historical operational losses reported in Schedule E.1 for products or services the firms no longer provide. (b) The FR Y-14Q instructions require institutions to report all operational losses captured by the institution as of the reporting quarter end, starting from the point-in-time at which the institution began capturing operational loss event data in a systematic manner. Hence, all historical operational risk losses captured by the IHC should be reported in Schedule E.1. (FRB Response: February 13, 2019) Q (Y140000771, E.1 – Operational Loss History): Reporting of non-reconciled OR loss data: (a) Can OR loss data reported in the Sch E.1 include OR losses that have not been reconciled to the firm's financials? As per our OR loss collection procedures, there is a one quarter lag on completing Quality Assurance (QA) checks on OR loss data entries. For example, on Sept 30th, OR loss data recorded as of Jun 30th has been reviewed for completeness and accuracy and reconciled to the financials. To date, it has been our process to report all OR losses in the Sch E.1 up to the most recent quarter-end, even if the events recorded in the prior quarter have not been gone through the QA checks. (b) Furthermore, there exist historical OR losses in our OR loss database that have not and may never be reconciled for various reasons to the firm's financials, can these historical losses with unreconciled data be included in the Sch E.1 report? A: (a) Yes, continue to report all operational losses up to the most recent quarter end. Firms must begin to report operational losses from the point where the data began to be collected in a systematic manner. While the losses should be reconciled to ensure that the data reflect a fair presentation, provided that the collection was systematic the data must still be reported. Hence, the most recent quarter's data must be reported on the due date, unless a "new reporter's exemption" has been granted. If the quality assurance process detects issues after the data are submitted, the firm must amend these in the next submission or re-submit for that quarter if the issue is material. (b) Yes, these historical losses with unreconciled data should be reported. Firms must report operational losses from the point where the data began to be collected in a systematic manner even if the data cannot be reconciled. Firms are encouraged to report available losses from periods prior to when systematic collection began. To ensure adequate records, firms should document discussion and analysis around reasons that historical items cannot be reconciled. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Schedule F—Trading Q (Y140001720, F.15 – Agencies): A portion of Pass-Through Mortgage-Backed Securities (MBS) held by firms may be deliverable to counterparties ("Deliverable Pools") to settle the Firm's To Be Announced (TBA) short positions. This means that those MBS would be sold at no less than the TBA price. Therefore, when applying the Global Market Shocks (GMS) prescribed by the FRB to Deliverable Pools, should firms consider establishing the stressed price of TBAs as the minimum limit for the stressed price of Deliverable Pools to better reflect the economics of the positions? Please note that this question only pertains to the specific Pass-Through MBS positions that will be delivered to settle the Firm's TBA short positions, and the Firm will shock the Pass-Through MBS that will remain in the Firm's trading account at the FRB prescribed shock. Background The Firm frequently enters into TBA short positions. Under a stress scenario if the Firm is not able to purchase securities to settle our short TBA positions, we settle our TBA short positions with the Pass-Through MBS held in our trading account (i.e, the firm receives the TBA prices for those Pass-Through MBS). According to stress scenarios prescribed by the FRB, Pass-through MBS are typically subjected to more severe shocks, potentially resulting in greater losses than TBAs. For example, in 2024, the FRB prescribed shocks under the severely adverse scenario for Pass-Through MBS and TBAs are 77.8 bps and 57.8 bps, respectively. This results in a potential situation where Pass-Through MBS, which are deliverable into TBA contracts ("Deliverable Pools"), are stressed to completely eliminate the payup premium and may be valued even less than TBAs. However, in practice, market efficiency would prevent such an occurrence, ensuring that Deliverable Pools trade at no less than the TBA price. In other words, stressed Deliverable Pool price should be greater or equal to stressed TBA prices rather than fall below them. Below is an illustrative example to help explain how current GMS shocks impact Deliverable Pools compared to TBAs. Scenario TBA base price = $100 Pass-through MBS base price = $102 (comprising a $2 payup premium over the $100 TBA contract) Stressed TBA price with 57.8bp spread widening = $99 Stressed Deliverable Pools with 77.8bp spread widening = $98 Due to market efficiency, Deliverable Pools are expected to trade at no less than the TBA price of $99, rather than at $98. Consequently, we should anticipate a loss of $(3), calculated as $102-$99, rather than a $(4) loss from $102-$98. A: Report the item(s) according to the firm's best understanding of the instructions. The Federal Reserve will consider adopting additional clarifications related to your question in future updates to the FR Y-14 reporting forms. (FRB Response: March 19, 2026) Q (Y140001730, General): Banks commonly originate and sell commercial real estate loans under Government sponsored programs (Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac & Ginnie Mae). The originated loans are non-trading and are classified as held-for-sale (HFS) measured at LOCOM or fair value. Banks enter into forward loan or MBS sale agreements to hedge the P&L volatility of the HFS loans prior to sale. These forward sale agreements are not considered derivatives per ASC 815 accounting guidance. In this instance banks often elect the fair value option or FVO on these forward sale positions to achieve desired P&L hedging outcomes. The presence of the following report instruction excerpt makes it unclear if these non-derivative forward sale agreements should be considered FVO hedges subject to Schedule F reporting requirements. "For example, FVO hedges may include single name or portfolio CDS, interest rate swaps, or any other derivative instrument outside of the trading book used to hedge FVO or HFS loan fair value fluctuations" Should these non-derivative forward sale agreements be considered FVO hedges? A: Yes, non-trading forward sale agreements used to hedge loan assets, which are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting (as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J), may be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule F as FVO Hedges. FR Y-14Q Schedule F defines FVO hedges as positions that "(i) are used to hedge loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting, as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J; AND (ii) are not reported as, or do not meet the definition of, trading assets or liabilities on the FR Y-9C report (Schedule HC-D)." The instructions then provide examples to help clarify the type of instruments that could count as FVO hedges. However, the inclusion of these examples is not meant to suggest that only the listed instruments would qualify as FVO hedges. (FRB Response: March 5, 2026) Q (Y140001708, General): Request for additional clarification on the treatment of bond ETFs on FR Y-14Q Schedule F: The FR Y-14Q Schedule F instructions lay out multiple options around the treatment of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs). The firm is seeking clarification on acceptable options for bond ETFs: Are firms required to do a look through for bond ETFs or is it acceptable to report such ETFs under the equity worksheet? If equity treatment is not acceptable, are firms allowed to a) report bond ETFs as a single line item representing the key characteristics of the underlying asset class b) Report bond ETFs via a sample of underliers representing the key characteristics of the underlying asset class? A: FR Y-14Q Schedule F states, "Sensitivities related to Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) that are primarily backed by direct asset holdings should be reported in the appropriate asset class." The instructions then provide an example to help clarify, noting that ETFs primarily backed by physical and financial commodities holdings should be included in the Commodities worksheets. However, the inclusion of this example is not meant to suggest that only commodity ETFs should be reported in the appropriate asset class worksheet. As with the commodities ETF example noted, bond ETFs should similarly be reported on a look-through basis in a manner that appropriately captures the underlying asset class exposures (Credit, in this case). (FRB Response: February 26, 2026) Q (Y140001721, F.23 – IDR-Jump to Default): This FAQ is a follow up to the recent FRB guidance provided through CCAR Q&A (SHK0502) clarifying that private equity will not be included in the global market shock component of the 2025 stress test. Does this mean Private Equity positions should be excluded from the "F.23 IDR – Jump to Default" sub-schedule of the FR Y-14Q Schedule F? Currently Private Equity positions are aggregated with other trading positions in the F.23 IDR – Jump to Default sub-schedule. A: The guidance provided through CCAR Q&A SHK0502 does not imply any change in FR Y-14Q reporting. Firms should continue to file the "IDR – Jump to Default" schedule according to the FR Y-14Q instructions. (FRB Response: February 19, 2026) Q (Y140001679, F.14 - Securitized Products): How should Firms to report mortgage bonds backed by Non-Qualified Mortgage collateral on sub-schedule F.14 (Securitized Products), where the FICO of the underlying borrower is predominantly > 720? Should Firms report these exposures under RMBS Alt-A (conservative approach)? Or should Firms report these exposures under RMBS-Prime? A: Report the item(s) according to the firm's best understanding of the instructions. Respondents may include explanatory comments addressing the firm's categorization of such mortgage bonds backed by non-qualified mortgage collateral. The Federal Reserve will consider adopting additional clarifications related to your question in future updates to the FR Y-14 reporting forms. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001729, F.4 - FX Spot Sensitivities): How should Firms report cryptocurrency-linked Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) and swaps that reference such ETFs in Schedule F of FR Y-14Q given the absence of a dedicated sub-schedule for this asset class? A: As with other ETFs, the exposures should be decomposed and reported in the schedule relevant to the type of exposures comprising the ETF. The Federal Reserve will consider adopting additional clarifications related to your question in future updates to the FR Y-14 reporting forms. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001703, General): The Federal Reserve Instructions state "Report on-shore and off-shore currency sensitivities separately" in Section F.4 - FX Spot Sensitivities and Section F.5 - FX Vega of the Instructions for the Capital Assessments and Stress Testing information collection (Reporting form FR Y-14Q). To the extent that the firm is using non-ISO currency codes to differentiate between onshore and offshore currencies, is there a standard that the firm can leverage for non-ISO currency codes for offshore currencies? A: The instructions for the FRY-14Q Schedule F (Trading) includes tables identifying countries by regional groupings and provides associated currency codes for each country. For currencies not listed or without ISO codes, firms may report the currency code used internally. When introducing such new currency codes, firms may include explanatory comments describing the currency, as part of its Y-14Q submission. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001741, General): Our Firm has exposure to both crypto futures and crypto ETFs (such as IBIT) across different businesses. Where in FR Y-14Q Schedule F should the Firm report crypto exposure? A: As with other ETFs, the exposures should be decomposed and reported in the schedule relevant to the type of exposures comprising the ETF. The Federal Reserve will consider adopting additional clarifications related to your question in future updates to the FR Y-14 reporting forms. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001071, F.1 - Equity by Geography): On the FR Y-14Q Schedule F (Trading) "Equity by Geography" tab, where the firm has an exotic option with multiple underliers that are not in the same country, P&L for shocking all underlying names simultaneously, as reported on the Spot-Vol grid tab, = [Sum of P&L from shocking underliers individually] + [cross effect]. While the P&L from shocking the underliers individually can easily be allocated to an appropriate country, should the firm allocate the cross effect, which would be an approximation, or report it in the cross-country indices or other bucket? A: The instructions for FR Y-14Q Sub-Schedule F.1 note that "each regional section has a row for cross-country indices, e.g. the Euro Stoxx indices, which may be used if firms have difficulty decomposing sensitivities by country." For such multiple country exposures, the cross effect should be reported on the "Other Cross-Country Indices" line. (FRB Response: January 15, 2026) Q (Y140001704, General): When it comes to categorizing exposure on the FR Y-14Q Schedule F (Trading), can rating agencies other than S&P, Moody's or Fitch be used for the determination of the Public Credit Rating leveraged for Market Risk Stress Loss Calculations, e.g., rating from European rating agencies? A: The instructions for Schedule F do not provide explicit criteria governing rating assignments, though our expectation is that ratings are reasonable and supportable. Thus, in cases where a firm does not report external nationally recognized statistical rating organization ratings or equivalents in schedule F, ratings used should align with the firm's internal business-as-usual risk measurement. (FRB Response: April 17, 2025) Q (Y140001717, General): Background Banks may purchase tranched credit protection via CDSs and issued CLNs to hedge portfolios of accrual loans (collectively "synthetic securitizations"). Per FR Y-14Q instructions, hedges of accrual loans are required to be reported in a separate submission of FR Y-14Q Schedule F ("Accrual Loan Hedges submission"). 2021 FAQ Y140001411 clarifies that both CDS and CLNs that are hedges of accrual loans should be included in the Accrual Loan Hedges submission. 2024 FAQ Y140001146 states that hedges of accrual loans that are CLNs or "similar synthetic securitizations" should be reported in the Securitized Products sub-schedule (Schedule F.14) of the Accrual Loan Hedges submission. Per the FRB Supervisory Stress Testing Methodology, the FRB calculates the benefit of hedges of accrual loans over the 9-quarter horizon using firm-reported P&L ladders based on spread widening scenarios and BBB corporate spreads. The FAQ instructs firms to report all CLNs (and similar securitizations like CDS) in the Securitized Products sub-schedule, which contains no P&L ladder information as it only requires Notional and MTM values. Therefore, it is unclear if reporting in F.14 provides the FRB with the required information to calculate the benefit of such hedges in the stress test. It is the firm's understanding that F.14 is meant to capture direct and synthetic exposures to securitized products. The underliers of synthetic securitizations in question are not securitized products; they are wholesale loans (e.g., corporate revolvers). If similar synthetic securitizations on wholesale loans are executed out of the trading book, they would be reported on the Corporate Credit (F.18 and F.19) sub-schedules of the GMS Schedule F submission, and not on the Securitized Products sub-schedule. Questions: Please clarify in which columns in the Securitized Product sub-schedule (F.14) accrual loan hedges that are synthetic securitizations should be reported given they do not align to any of the column categories. Please clarify if accrual loan hedges that are synthetic securitizations should be reported solely on the Securitized Products sub-schedule (F.14) or if the P&L ladders should also be reported on the Corporate Credit (F.18 and F.19) sub-schedules. A: Report the hedging instruments on the sub-schedules that most accurately reflect those used in the accrual loan hedge as done for Trading positions. For example, if the accrual loan hedge is best described as an advanced economy or emerging market economy traded credit, use the F.18 (Corporate Credit-Advanced)-F-19 (Corporate Credit-Emerging Markets) sub-schedules to report the hedge. Note that this response supersedes the earlier response to FAQ 1146. (FRB Response: January 29, 2025) Q (Y140001681, F.18 – Corporate Credit-Advanced): How should firms report CLNs through which tranched credit risk protection is purchased on accrual loans? Should firms report these exposures as a decomposed credit basket under Loan CDS on sub-schedule F.18 (Corporate Credit-Advanced)? Or should Firms report these exposures as 'Other' CLO on sub-schedule F.14 (Securitized Products)? A: Report credit linked notes (CLNs) through which tranched credit risk protection is purchased on accrual loans as accrual loan hedges on the FR Y-14Q Schedule F. Report the hedging instruments on the sub-schedules that most accurately reflect those used in the accrual loan hedge as done for Trading positions. For example, if the accrual loan hedge is best described as an advanced economy or emerging market economy traded credit, use the F.18 (Corporate Credit-Advanced) and F.19 (Corporate Credit-Emerging Markets) sub-schedules to report the hedge. Note that this response supersedes the earlier response to FAQ 1146. (FRB Response: January 29, 2025) Q (Y140001461, F.6 – Rates DV01): Please clarify how a derivative instrument with an agency debenture underlier, such as a forward purchase agreement with an underlying agency debenture, should be reported in FR Y-14Q sub-schedule F.6 – Rates DV01. Should this type of transaction be reported in the Agencies line based on the type of underlying or is the Agencies line only intended for Agency Debenture cash products? A: Yes, derivative instruments with agency debentures as the underlier should be reported on the "Agencies" line. (FRB Response: November 27, 2024) Q (Y140001146, General): Banks can and do purchase first-loss or other subordinated credit protection from third parties referencing an on balance sheet portfolio of loans (e.g. commercial and industrial loans) via credit default swap, an issued credit linked note (CLN) or a consolidated securitization transaction. This purchased protection can result in reduced losses on the senior risk retained in the underlying loans. Currently the FR Y-14Q report does not collect all data necessary to allow the supervisory models to capture the benefit of this tranched purchased credit protection on modeled losses for the underlying portfolio. More specifically, the FR Y-14Q collects Total Loan Population in Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan) but does not collect data to allow the FRB to identify (a) loan portfolios with tranched credit protection; (b) amount and nature of non-prorata protection purchased; (c) whether securitization capital treatment has been applied; and (d) the amount of subordination (i.e., attachment & detachment point.). How would the Federal Reserve expect on balance sheet loans on which tranched credit protection has been purchased to be included in the FR Y-14Q report to ensure that projected losses on the retained risk position of the bank can be accurately reflected? A: Firms should report exposures to credit linked notes (CLNs) or similar synthetic securitization exposures as accrual loan hedges or FVO hedges on Schedule F.14 (Securitized Products) of the FR Y-14Q, depending on whether the loans in the reference pool are booked in accrual or in HFS/FVO. Product and sub-product types should best reflect the nature of the reference pool given the available options in the sub-schedule. (FRB Response: October 9, 2024) Q (Y140001625, F.6 – Rates DV01): The company considers USD SOFR as the primary interest rate driver in its trading portfolio, and has designated SOFR as its unique outright "base" curve for USD in Rates DV01 F.6. USD SOFR risk is associated with overnight SOFR, 1-month Term SOFR and 3-month Term SOFR interest rate curves. For the DV01 sensitivity associated with these interest rates, the company would like to clarify the reporting requirement in the Rates DV01 tab of FR Y-14Q, Schedule F, i.e. whether: 1. Overnight SOFR, 1-month Term SOFR and 3-month Term SOFR risk should be reported exclusively in the "Swaps / Discounting Curve" line, or 2. Should the risk attached to the Term SOFR curves, i.e. 1-month Term SOFR and 3-month Term SOFR be included in any of the basis lines in addition to the "Swaps / Discounting Curve" line? A: In the situation described, with SOFR designated as the firm's unique outright "base" curve for USD, Term SOFR curves should be included in the Basis Risk rows provided according to their frequency / tenor (per the second option provided in the question). For example, 1-month Term SOFR should be included in the "1m Basis" row, while 3-month Term SOFR should be included in the "3m Basis" row. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001548, General): Firm X is the majority equity investor in various private funds which meet GAAP provisions that require consolidation of the funds into its financial statements. These funds are not "investment companies" under SEC regulations, and therefore do apply FV-NI accounting. In addition, the consolidated fund entities make equity investments in a range of portfolio companies. Certain investments made by the funds in portfolio companies are controlling investments and require consolidation accounting ("consolidated portfolio companies"). Assets and liabilities of consolidated portfolio companies are recorded to Other Assets and Other Liabilities, respectively, and minority shareholder equity is recorded as Noncontrolling Interests; overall these consolidation entries increase to the size of the balance sheet. Notably, a sizable portion of the assets consolidated onto the reporting institutions financial statements takes the form of goodwill which is subject to immediate deduction from CET1 capital. Portfolio companies' earnings during the investment holding period are recorded to Other noninterest income. GAAP consolidation procedures eliminate investments in debt and equity issued by portfolio companies (intercompany eliminations). While FR Y-14Q Schedule F Private Equity reporting explicitly states to includes all equity-related investments such as common, preferred, and convertible securities, all such investments related to these consolidated portfolio companies are eliminated under GAAP as a result of incorporating the investee's balance sheet onto our own. The FR Y-14Q General Instructions, require firms to prepare their filings of the FR Y-14Q in accordance with GAAP and explicitly instructions firms to follow the rules of consolidation present in the FR Y-9C instructions. GAAP requirements for consolidating these portfolio companies eliminates investments in the equity of the company. Assets and liabilities of the consolidated portfolio company, reported in Other Assets and Other Liabilities are explicitly scoped into reporting on FR Y-14Q Schedule G. In the absences of any schedule-specific instruction or existing FAQs, we ask that the FRB please confirm that exposures arising from consolidated portfolio companies should be reported based on the general instruction's application of GAAP and the rules of consolidation in the FR Y-9C/GAAP. As a result, exposures to consolidated portfolio companies would only be reflected on FR Y-14Q Schedule G (Other Assets and Other Liabilities line items). In this manner, the reporting would align to the FR Y-9C and SEC reporting, recognize the goodwill that is already deducted from CET1 associated with these investments, and recognize the elimination of the equity investments as a result of consolidation entries. A: A controlling private equity investment that results in FR Y-9C consolidation of its target investee is not required to be included on FR Y-14Q F.24 (Trading – Private Equity) as an equity exposure (though the investee company's consolidated assets and liabilities should be reported in line with the FR Y-14Q instructions). This conformance with FR Y-9C consolidation rules applies regardless of the degree to which the consolidated assets in a particular case are comprised of goodwill. (FRB Response: February 1, 2023) Q (Y140001563, General): Question: Is it appropriate to report the derivatives that are used to hedge interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) in FR Y-14Q Schedule F FVO Loan Hedge submission, for IRLCs that are derivatives and not loans? Background: FAQ Y140001186 does not provide the clarification to above question. That is because the original question in this FAQ provided an incomplete description of the issue. The original question did not highlight that IRLCs that are commitments to originate mortgage loans that will be held for sale after funding should be accounted for as forward derivative contracts under US GAAP, and not loans. The FRB's response to Y140001186 is appropriate if the commitment to original mortgage loans are reported as loans. Additionally, the aggregate exposure from both IRLC derivatives and held for sale loans are further hedged by other derivatives and such hedges are not held for trading purposes and are therefore reported as Other assets/Other liabilities in the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-F/HC-G. Above FAQ does not provide answers to such hedges. We believe that above hedges do not meet the reporting requirements for the FVO Loan Hedge submission. As per the instructions and additional clarification from the FRB's recent questionnaire for Schedule F in November 2021, FVO hedges should meet two conditions to be reported in the FVO Loan Hedge submission: (i) hedge is to loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting, as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J, AND (ii) NOT reported as, or do not meet the definition of, trading assets or liabilities on the FR Y-9C report (Schedule HC-D). The derivatives that are used to hedge the aggregate exposure from IRLC derivatives and HFS loans meet the requirement in (ii) since they are reported in Schedule HC-F/HC-G. However, these derivatives do not meet the requirement in (i) because a portion of the derivatives is used to hedge other derivatives (IRLC) and NOT HFS loans. Therefore, for the portion that's used to hedge other derivatives (IRLC), the Firm should not be reporting this hedge in the FVO Loan Hedge submission. Only the portion of hedge that's associated with the HFS loans should be reported in FVO Loan Hedge submission. To report the entirety of these derivatives in the FVO Loan Hedge submission will overstate the total hedge on HFS loans and may unintentionally distort comparability between the result of the FRB's macroeconomic forecast model applied to FVO hedges reported in Schedule F and the result from the forecast of the HFS loans that are reported in Schedule J. Therefore, reporting the portion of the derivatives that are used to hedge IRLC derivatives does not meet the stated reporting requirement, nor the likely intention of the Schedule F FVO Loan Hedge submission. A: If part of the portfolio being hedged is comprised of positions accounted as derivatives, then the portion of the hedges related to those positions does not meet the requirement for reporting to the FVO hedges schedule. Only the portion of the hedges related to HFS loans should be reported to the FVO hedges schedule. (FRB Response: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001565, General): Both cash and derivative instruments can be used to hedge DVA (one of the X-Valuation Adjustments). We would like to confirm with the Board that it is the Board's intent of the general instructions to Schedule F to fully remove DVA hedge positions (i.e. DVA and XVA hedges other than CVA hedges) from the FR Y-14Q. As an outcome, we observe that in their removal the population of trading book positions on the 14Q may no longer reconcile to the trading assets or liabilities on the FR Y- 9C report. A : Correct. DVA and XVA hedges other than CVA hedges should not be reported in Schedule F of the FR Y-14Q. (FRB Response: November 16, 2022) Q (Y140001567, General): The firm would like to request additional clarification pertaining to Vega for credit option products on FR Y-14Q Schedule F, specifically on if these products should be reported. If firms are expected to report Vega on these products (i.e. option on a bond ETF or CDX option), can the FRB provide guidance on where specifically in the template these should be reported? A : Firms are not expected to report Vega for credit option products on FR Y-14Q, Schedule F (Trading). (FRB Response: November 3, 2022) Q (Y140001480, General): A BHC can have non-controlling interests (NCI) associated with investments arising from its private equity business such as where a 3rd party entity would share gains and losses of a consolidated private equity fund through carried interest. In populating the FR Y-14Q, reporting firms are asked to report investments using the GAAP carrying value of the investments. As such, any shock applied to the GAAP carrying value of the investments would not consider the corresponding offset to NCI within the firm's equity account, and therefore would not be reflective of the actual economic loss incurred by the reporting firm. Should the BHC and the FRB exclude impacts attributed to NCI from regulatory capital depletion or Stress Capital Buffer (SCB) calculations from the private equity shocks in the Global Market Shock? Additionally, can we facilitate this exclusion by providing additional information through the special collections or changes to other stress test disclosures for private equity? A: In this particular case, based on the additional information provided, the firm may net the GAAP carrying value of minority interests from the GAAP carrying value of private equity investments. However, for other non-standard exposures, such as where gains and losses are shared in a non-linear fashion or have other such unique features, firms should ask the FRB for clarification on reporting. (FRB Response: April 12, 2022) Q (Y140001513, General): Per the FR Y-14Q Instructions, accrual loan hedges are now reported in the Trading Schedule F/AL and FVO templates, with an "as of" date of 12/31, rather than the Market Shock "as of" date. The FR Y-14A instructions imply that exposures reported on FR Y14Q Schedule F should be stressed using the Global Market Shock, using the Market Shock "as of" date. Please clarify the expected stress loss treatment (i.e., Global Market Shock or a 9 quarter forecast) for accrual loan hedges within the FRB Severely Adverse Scenario, and which particular line item(s) the P&L impact should be reported in the FR Y-14A. A: Within the FRB Severely Adverse Scenario, accrual loan hedges should be subject to the nine-quarter macroeconomic scenario. The P&L impact should be reported in line 65 "Other losses" of the FR Y-14A, Schedule A.1.a (Income Statement). (FRB Response: March 30, 2022) Q (Y140001488, General): Updated Instructions: "Additionally, X-Valuation Adjustments (XVA) such as Funding Valuation Adjustments (FVA) or other such Valuation Adjustments should NOT be included in this schedule. XVA hedges (other than CVA hedges) should also NOT be reported in the FR Y-14Q Trading schedule or the CVA hedges version thereof." 1. Does 'CVA hedges' in the below instructions refer solely to asset CVA hedges, or does it cover both asset and liability side hedges? 2. Do these instructions apply to all non-CVA hedges (including, e.g., interest rate hedges) or just the proxy credit hedges of XVA other than asset CVA (or asset and liability CVA, depending on the response to #1)? 3. Where in the 14Q/14A schedules should such excluded non-CVA hedges be reported? For example, for institutions that include FVA in their CCAR submissions, where should the corresponding FVA hedge PnL be reported? A: 1. CVA hedges refer solely to the asset side. 2. This instruction requires firms to exclude all non-CVA related hedges of XVA. The exclusion requirement does not apply to non-CVA hedges that are not XVA hedges. The reporting exclusion for non-CVA related hedges of XVA is not limited only to proxy credit hedges of XVA other than asset CVA. 3. For institutions including FVA in their CCAR submissions, FVA hedges should be reported in FR Y-14A, schedules A.1.a (Income Statement) and A.5 (Counterparty Credit Risk). (FRB Response: March 30, 2022) Q (Y140001455, General): Topic: AL Hedge Submission Type Clarification Question: For FR Y-14Q Schedule F, we would appreciate clarification on which positions should be reported under the submission types "AL Hedges" and "FVO Hedges" based on the following report instruction update effective June 30, 2021: Positions that are hedges of accrual loans or hedges of loans held under fair value accounting (FVO hedges), but that are not reported on the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-D (Trading Assets and Liabilities), should not be included under the "Trading" submission type for this schedule. Instead, they should be reported as separate instances of Schedule F under the submission types "AL Hedges" or "FVO Hedges," respectively. These categories could include, for example, hedges reported on FR Y-9C Schedules HC-F (Other Assets) or HC-G (Other Liabilities). Existing report instructions define 'FVO Loan hedges' as derivatives used to hedge changes in the fair value of loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting. We ask for specific clarification regarding the additional instructions reference to the intended differentiation between 'AL Hedges' and 'FVO Hedges'. Are the "AL Hedges" and "FVO Hedges" submission types intended to include hedges to HFS and FVO loan assets, respectively? Or, alternatively, is the "AL Hedges" submission intended to include hedges related to held-for-investment (HFI) loan assets while the "FVO Hedges" submission type would correspond to the defined population of FVO Loan Hedges which includes hedges to both HFS and FVO loan assets? A: The "AL Hedges" submission should include hedges of accrual loans (HFI) while the "FVO Hedges" submission should continue to include hedges related to both HFS and FVO loan assets. (FRB Response: November 10, 2021) Q (Y140001451, F.20 – Sovereign Credit): Background: The instructions for sub-Schedule F.15 "Agencies" require firms to report sensitivities for U.S. Agency securities and Non-U.S. Agency securities without an explicit sovereign government guarantee. Non-U.S. Agency securities with an explicit sovereign government guarantee are required to be reported in sub-Schedule F.20 "Sovereign Credit". The instructions for sub-Schedule F.15 "Agencies" do not distinguish between those U.S. Agency securities with vs. those without explicit U.S. Government guarantee. U.S Agency Securities comprise securities issued by either Government Sponsored Entities (GSEs) or Agencies of the U.S. Government. These securities can have an explicit guarantee of the U.S. Government, which causes them to receive lower risk weights under the U.S. capital framework. Consistent with the regulatory capital rules, the instructions for FR Y-9C Schedule HC-R state that "[e]xposures that are collateralized by securities issued or guaranteed by U.S. Government, or other sovereign governments [.] qualify for the zero percent risk weight." Sub-schedule F.20 "Sovereign Credit" requires firms to report exposures related to central governments and quasi-sovereigns that are explicitly guaranteed by the central government. This sub-schedule differentiates the level of risk associated with the guarantee. Question: Should U.S. Agency securities with an explicit U.S. government guarantee, such as those issued by GNMA, be reported on the FR Y-14Q, sub-Schedule F.15 "Agencies", or F.20 "Sovereign Credit"? A: U.S. Agency securities with an explicit U.S. government guarantee, such as those issued by GNMA, should be reported on FR Y-14Q, Schedule F.15 (Agencies). (FRB Response: August 18, 2021) Q (Y140001411, General): a) Effective June 30, 2021, which of the following four options should the Firm apply in the Schedule F, "Accrual Loan Hedges" submission: Derivatives, reported in FR Y-9C Schedules HC-D, HC-F and HC-G, that are used to hedge accrual loans (HFI), or Derivatives, reported in FR Y-9C Schedules HC-F and HC-G, that are used to hedge accrual loans (HFI), or Derivatives (described in 1 including trading and non- trading) and CLNs issued by the Firm (e.g. issued CLNs through which a firm purchases tranched credit protection that are not reported as derivatives on the FR Y-9C balance sheet) that are used to hedge accrual loans (HFI), or Derivatives (described in 2 including only non-trading) and CLNs issued by the Firm (e.g. issued CLNs through which a firm purchases tranched credit protection that are not reported as derivatives on the FR Y-9C balance sheet) that are used to hedge non-FVO HFI loans Background: Revised FR Y-14Q Schedule F instructions, effective June 30, 2021 (Revised Instructions) require firms to submit "positions that are hedges of accrual loans or hedges of loans held under fair value accounting (FVO hedges), but that are NOT reported on the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-D (Trading Assets and Liabilities), should NOT be included under the "Trading" submission type for this schedule. Instead, they should be reported as separate instances of Schedule F under the submission types "Accrual Loan Hedges" or "FVO Hedges," respectively." These revisions reference the "FVO Hedges" or the "FVO Loan Hedges" submission type, which is defined in the Schedule F instructions as "derivatives used to hedge changes in fair value of loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting, as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J." The Revised Instructions seem to require that the hedges meet two conditions in order to be reported in separate instance of Schedule F under the submission type "Accrual Loan Hedges": (i) hedge is NOT currently reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-D, and (ii) hedge is a derivative (per definition in FR Y-14Q Schedule F). For example, an issued CLN through which the firm purchased junior credit risk protection on accrual loans will be excluded since it's not a derivative and is reported as an issued structured note on the balance sheet. Note that the underlying loans and the issued CLNs may be treated as a securitization for capital purposes. Similarly a CDS through which the firm purchases pro-rata protection will be excluded since it's a derivative but is reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-D. A: The Accrual Loan Hedges submission should include derivatives reported on FR Y-9C schedules HC-F and HC-G that are used to hedge accrual loans (HFI) as well as credit-linked notes reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC line 16 ("Other Borrowed Money") that are used to hedge accrual loans. For other hedging positions of accrual loans outside of these categories, firms should inquire with the Federal Reserve. (FRB Response: August 11, 2021) Q (Y140001322, F.23 – IDR – Jump to Default): In regards to the FR Y-14Q F.23 Trading IDR schedules, instructions specify to submit JTD and recovery rates based on 'standard recovery assumptions'. Given recovery varies across instrument is it expected that recovery is derived using aggregated JTD and notional (i.e. JTD-Bond Equivalent Market value)/-Notional? Or, given using this formula recovery rates can be unintuitive (negative or greater than 100% when there are long/short instruments with different recovery levels), is some alternative approach for calculating recovery rates for submission preferred? A: Any method of aggregating differing recovery rates across underlying instruments that reflects the firm's standard recovery assumptions will suffice—for example a notional weighted average. (FRB Response: May 12, 2021) Q (Y140001339, General): Our bank holds non-publicly traded [Company] Class B common shares that are mandatorily convertible to [Company] Class A shares upon settlement of certain litigation. We hedge the conversion ratio risk and [Company] Class A share price risk of the equity position with a combination of conversion ratio swap contracts and total return swap contracts. The equity position and hedging positions are not held for trading. The common shares are accounted for at fair value through earnings, and are reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-F Line 4 'Equity investments without readily determinable fair values'. The hedging positions are reported in FR Y-9C in Schedule HC-F Line 6 'Other' as the derivatives are not held for trading or HC-G Line 4 'Other'; depending on the market value of the derivative hedges. Schedule F requires that offsetting hedges are reported as the notional amount plus the current MTM of the hedging derivative(s). Historically, the economic substance of the position in [Company] Class B shares and its associated hedges has resulted in a net liability position. Based on the report instructions prior to 9/30/20, we had evaluated the net position for reporting in F.25 'Other Fair Value Assets' as the instructions for that sub-schedule state "This worksheet is meant to capture the fair value of investments other than private equity which are subject to fair-value accounting aggregated by GICS code." As the net position was a liability, we had not been reporting an amount related to these positions. As the report instructions were revised as of 9/30/20 to state "Other Fair Value Assets are all non-derivative assets.", we are seeking clarity from the Federal Reserve on the reporting of a non-trading equity position held at fair value that is economically hedged. Reporting only the [Company] Class B share position without the offsetting hedges would substantially misrepresent the risk and economic substance of the transaction. In light of the potential to misrepresent the risk of these transactions if we are to report only the value of the shares irrespective of economic hedges, we ask that the FRB clarify how entities expected to report [Company] Class B shares and the associated hedges that are not held for trading in 'Private Equity' (F.24) or 'Other Fair Value Assets' (F.25)? A: The exposures in question may be reported on a net basis under the Equity by Geography tab. For other exposures with potentially unclear characteristics, firms should inquire with the Federal Reserve. (FRB Response: April 14, 2021) Q (Y140001187, General): Effective December 31, 2019, the FR Y-14Q Schedule F reporting instructions will require reporting to include FVO loan hedges. Specifically, instructions require reporting of derivatives used to hedge changes in the fair value of loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting, as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J. When reporting these FVO/HFS loan hedges on Schedule F, how should the market value of FVO loan hedges be reported in the FR Y-14Q Schedule F? In particular, sections of the Schedule F instructions require reporting the market value of certain derivatives (e.g., CDS) on a bond-equivalent basis, but no such instruction is given for derivative hedges of FVO loans. For example, should the market value reported on Schedule F of a FVO loan hedge be determined by using the MtM of the related TBA derivatives; or by using a bond-equivalent basis (defined in Schedule F as the notional amount plus the current MtM of the instrument)? A: The value of the CDS hedges on FVO loans should be reported using a bond-equivalent basis. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001186, General): Effective December 31, 2019, the FR Y-14Q Schedule F reporting instructions will require reporting FVO loan hedges. Specifically, instructions require reporting of derivatives used to hedge changes in the fair value of loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting, as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J. Residential mortgage originations commonly include an interest rate lock agreement in advance of actually originating the HFS loan. Common industry practice for these residential mortgages originated for sale is to commence hedging the potential changes in value at the point of the interest rate lock. As such, our firm has HFS loan hedges which span the entirety of exposures arising in the mortgage origination pipeline between the execution of an interest rate lock agreement (i.e. pre-funding) through funding and ultimate sale of the loan. However, based on the Schedule F reporting instructions, the required reporting of FVO Loan Hedges appears to be exclusive to funded loans which occurs sometime after the interest rate lock agreement is consummated. For these instances where a single instrument hedges the entire HFS mortgage origination pipeline, how should a reporting firm report these amounts on Schedule F? Should an institution report the entire hedge amount inclusive of the portion that hedges interest rate lock commitments for HFS loans, allocate the hedge based on the amount of funded loans, or report using an alternative method? For Reference – Instructions FVO Loan hedges are derivatives used to hedge changes in the fair value of loan assets that are held-for-sale (HFS) or held under fair value option (FVO) accounting, as reported in Schedule H or Schedule J. For example, FVO hedges may include single name or portfolio CDS, interest rate swaps, or any other derivative instrument outside of the trading book used to hedge FVO or HFS loan fair value fluctuations; the definition is not intended to include so-called macro hedges. A: The entire hedge amount should be reported on Schedule F. If part of the portfolio being hedged is comprised of positions accounted as derivatives, consult the response to Q&A Y140001563. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) (Revised: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001213, F.24 – Private Equity): For FR Y-14Q Schedule F reporting, should firms exclude mandated investments in all types of private institutions and entities or exclude mandated investments in only government and government sponsored entities and stock exchanges? Background: The Firm's view is that "mandated investments" are an obligatory investment in the equity of an institution or an entity, required by the rules of the institution/entity, in order for the Firm to participate in the activities of that institution. In addition, in the non-CECL NPR proposed rules the Board stated the following- "Adding a sentence to the General Instructions, Section A (Purpose of Schedule) to indicate that mandated investments should be excluded from Schedule F" – which suggests that equity investments in all types of entities that mandatorily require investments for Firms to participate should be excluded. Therefore, unless instructed otherwise by the regulator, we will exclude mandated equity investments in all types of private institutions and entities. A: The interpretation is correct that "mandated investments" include any obligatory investment required by rules to participate in the activities of an institution, and are not limited to governments, GSEs, and stock exchanges. Any material exposures that are excluded on this basis should be clearly noted in the firm's capital plan. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140001336, General): How should trading book exposures relating to alternative reference rates (e.g. SOFR, TONAR) be reported on FR Y-14Q, Schedule F? A: Outright exposures to alternative reference rates should be reported in the "Other" row of the directional risk section, and basis exposures in the "Other basis" row of the basis risk section, for the corresponding currency in sub-schedule F.6 ("Rates DV01"). (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001233, General): In the revised FR Y-14Q instructions for Schedule F Private Equity, effective March 31, 2020, on page 115 the FRB instructions state that mandated investments such as government or government sponsored entities and stock exchanges, should be excluded from Schedule F. Given these instructions, does the FRB intend on BHC's reporting these positions elsewhere in the 14Q, or should they be excluded entirely? If we are to exclude the positions entirely from FR Y-14Q reporting, does this also mean these investments should be excluded as well from BHC's stress testing/global market shock processes for CCAR and FR Y-14A reporting? A: Such mandated investments should not be reported on Schedule F. Any material exposures that are excluded on this basis should be clearly noted in the firm's capital plan. Y-14Q reporting of such exposures should continue to follow the instructions for any other relevant schedules, including Schedule G (PPNR) and Schedule M (Balances) at a minimum. Regarding the BHC scenario, such investments should be included if they present material risks. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001232, F.6 – Rates DV01): In case of positions creating two basis risks which offset each other i.e. off-the-run vs on-the-run, how should this be reported in the template? Reporting the net figure in "Other basis" would result in showing a flat net risk. A: On the Rates tabs of Schedule F (Trading), there is not a distinction between on-the-run and off-the-run at present, thus such exposures should be reported within the appropriate line item rather than "Other Basis" and netted as applicable. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001246, F.24 – Private Equity): For the 1Q instructions changes to Schedule F.24 – Private Equity related to the split out of carry value of PE investments at fair value (section A) and non fair value (section B), is the expectation that we report the total of Sections A & B? Or is the expectation we report Section A & B values at the regional level only? We have a very urgent question related to the Schedule F – Trading xml template, we need an answer this week to be able to produce the submission xml files. Appreciate if you can get us an answer as soon as possible. A: Please report the total of both sections A and B together in the Total field. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001207, F.15 – Agencies): In the 14Q Trading (Schedule F) template, can you please clarify if the IO / PO that should be reported in the Agencies tab is for IO and PO Mortgages with prepayment risk and not stripped (I/O, P/O) agency debentures with no prepayment risk? A: In the FR Y-14Q Trading Schedule, IO and PO reporting lines on the Agencies tab refer to mortgages with prepayment risk, not debentures with no prepayment risk. (FRB Response: June 10, 2020) Q (Y140001043, F.22 – IDR-Corporate Credit): We wanted some clarity on the Special Collections Trading IDR instructions for the Single Name Positions tab. For Table A, are we only supposed to report positions between =>$25M and <=$50M exposures? A: On the Single Name Positions tab in Table A, positions should be reported for which absolute value <=$50M. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000728, F.24 – Private Equity): How are firms expected to report Mutual Fund Seed Capital exposures? Should firms decompose the funds into their underlying components? Or should they simply report the market value in the "Fund Seed Capital" field in the Private Equity sub-schedule? A: Mutual fund seed capital exposures should be reported in the FR Y-14Q, Schedule F (Trading), sub-schedule F.24 (Private Equity). (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000668, General): The current FR Y-14Q schedule instructions indicates the "4th Quarter Trading and Counterparty (regular/unstressed submission) is due 52 calendar days after the notification date (notifying respondents of the as-of date) or March 15, whichever comes earlier." The Enhanced Prudential Standards Section 252.54, which describes requirements for annual stress testing for covered companies, specifies the "as-of date selected by the Board may be between October 1 of the previous calendar year and March 1 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed." If the Board selects an as-of date in October, the FR Y-14Q Trading and Counterparty submissions will be required to submit before the 4th quarter. Can the FRB confirm that the submitting banks will need to be prepared to submit the 4th quarter Trading and Counterparty 14Q before the 4th quarter is over? A: As indicated in the FR Y-14Q Instructions, all firms that are required to submit official Trading and Counterparty (regular/unstressed submission) schedules for the 4th quarter must do so 52 calendar days after the date respondents are notified of the 4th quarter as-of-date or March 15, whichever comes earlier. If the notification date precedes the end of the 4th quarter by more than 52 days, then the Trading and Counterparty (regular/unstressed submission) schedules would have to be submitted prior to the end of the 4th quarter. (FRB Response: October 25, 2017) Schedule G—PPNR Q (Y140001174, G.3 – PPNR Metrics): We would like to get more clarification on PPNR Metrics Line 40 – Assets under Custody and Administration. What is the definition of assets under administration? Is this different than assets under management as reported in lines 35 and Fee earning client assets in line 37? The non-interest income reported under Investment Services in Submission Worksheet Line 20 includes income earned on client assets reported in Metrics Line 35 and 37 and will be inclusive of Assets under custody, which partially inclusive of assets under custody that generates income. If we disclose assets under custody, will we count those assets in this line (Line 40) also? Will there be an overstatement of assets when compared to P/L? The Line 40 is grouped under "Investment Services Segment" In this case will this metrics be specific to this segment or a firm-wide metric. If it is segment wise, what is the definition of "Investment Services Segment"? A: Firms should report assets under management, administration, and custody according to their internal classifications. In general, assets under management are held by the firm for transaction-related purposes involving the firm's discretionary investment expertise. Assets under administration are held by the client but serviced by the firm. Assets under custody are both held and serviced by the firm for execution-related or safekeeping/custody purposes only. Where a single client asset generates material revenue in multiple business lines on Schedule G.1, the same client asset should be reported in each relevant line on Schedule G.3 (once in each category). For example, if a single asset generates fee income from both custody and management, the fee income should be specified in Schedule G.1 lines 19 and 20. The underlying asset should then be reported in Schedule G.3 lines 35 and 40. Business Lines/Segments should be reported as they correspond to the lines/segments specified in Schedule G.1. For example, fee income from assets under custody and administration within the Investment Services Segment as defined in Schedule G.1 Line 20 should be reported on Schedule G.3 Line 40. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001421, G.1 - PPNR Submission): Given the most recent updates to FR Y-14A A.1.a. Summary Schedule Income Statement Worksheet as shown below (newly added line item 127b - Unrealized holding gains (losses) on equity securities not held for trading), it seems to imply that the Y-14Q PPNR Schedule G.1. should begin to exclude unrealized holding gains (losses) on equity securities not held for trading, so as to avoid double counting this amount to reconcile to the FR Y-9C Net income. Currently, unlike gains (losses) on AFS and HTM securities (which PPNR specifically excludes), the Y-14Q instructions do not include guidance on the equities and have been included in the PPNR submissions. We request confirmation whether "Unrealized holding gains (losses) on equity securities not held for trading" should be included or excluded in future Y-14Q PPNR submissions? A: FR Y-14A A.1.a. - Income Statement, line item 127b, requires firms to report unrealized holding gains (losses) on equity securities not held for trading as defined in the FR Y-9C, Schedule HI, Item 8.b. Unrealized holding gains (losses) on equity securities not held for trading should therefore not be reported on FR Y-14A A.7 - PPNR. Unrealized holding gains (losses) on equity securities not held for trading should also not be reported on FR Y-14Q, Schedule G - PPNR. For the FR Y-14Q, equity securities with readily determinable fair values not held for trading, as included in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC, item 2.c, should be reported on Schedule B.1 - Securities 1. (FRB Response: February 5, 2026) Q (Y140001687, G.3 - PPNR Metrics): Should derivatives entered into with clients in the prime brokerage business be reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 - PPNR Metrics in Line 33 ("Average Client Balances (Prime Brokerage)")? If yes, should the firm report notional or mark-to-market amounts on Lines 33? A: Yes, derivatives entered into with clients in the prime brokerage business should be reported in Line 33 of FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.3. The firm should report the mark-to-market values of the derivatives, consistent with the reporting of other average asset values in Schedule G.3. (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001650, G.3 - PPNR Metrics): FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 Line 54-67: We believe the instructions as described leave ambiguity as to whether the Weighted Average Life (WAL) calculations should reflect the expected time on the balance sheet for all assets and liabilities, or only those in trading portfolios. If a non-trading loan portfolio has a weighted average life of 60 months based on expected remaining life and inclusive of behavioral assumptions such as prepayments, but is now currently held-for-sale (HFS) as the Firm expects to sell that portfolio within the next 5 months, should the Firm report the Weighted Average Life as Option 1 - 60 months, based solely on the expected pay-off of the loan or Option 2 - 5 months, considering the held-for-sale accounting treatment and expected time on the balance sheet? A: A firm should report the Weighted Average Life reflective of the current position, the impact of new business activity, and the impact of behavioral assumptions such as prepayments or defaults, based on the expected remaining lives, inclusive of behavioral assumptions. It should reflect the weighted average time to principal actual repayment (as modeled) for all positions in that portfolio, rounded to the nearest monthly term. The Weighted Average Life should reflect the spot balance sheet position for each time period; it should not reflect any expected sale or disposition of a portfolio in a future time period. (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001476, G.3 - PPNR Metrics): Questions: 1. For FR Y-14Q Schedule G.3 - PPNR Metrics Line Items 35 ("Assets Under Management"), 37 ("Fee Earning Client Assets"), and 40 ("Assets Under Custody and Administration"), where the same client asset generates revenue in two of the three categories (corresponding FR Y-14Q Schedule G.1 PPNR Submission Worksheet Line Items 19A ("Asset Management"), 19B ("Wealth Management/Private Banking"), and 20A ("Investment Servicing")), should the same client asset be reported: A. In each category the same client asset generates revenue (i.e. two categories, e.g. Schedule G.3/G.1 Line Item 35/19A and Line Items 40/20A)? B. In the Line Item that is considered the key drivers for revenues being reported on the PPNR schedule? Background: FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.3 instructions state that "Metrics by Business Segment/Line" correspond to Business Segments/Lines on Schedule G.1 PPNR Submission Worksheet. Per the instructions, "this means that each metric is reflective of revenues reported on Schedule G.1 PPNR Submission Worksheet for a given Business Segment/Line, unless explicitly stated otherwise." To arrive at accurate metrics on the "PPNR Metrics" Schedule G.3, client asset reporting should mirror the revenue category reporting. For example, where the same client asset generates material revenue in two categories, the same client asset should be reported in both categories (once in each category). Otherwise if the client asset is only reported in one of the categories, the metric would be misstated with inaccurate returns in the second category where the client asset also generated revenue. Currently, the Firm reports such client assets in each category the client asset generates revenue. The Firm will continue this current reporting practice until a response is received indicating otherwise. A: The current reporting by business segment described in the question is consistent with the FR Y-14, Schedule G instructions. Where a single client asset generates material revenue in multiple business lines on Schedule G.1, the same client asset should be reported in each relevant line in Schedule G.3 (once in each category). For example, if a single asset generates fee income from both custody and management, the fee income should be specified in Schedule G.1 lines 19 and 20. The underlying asset should then be reported in Schedule G.3 lines 35 and 40. (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001671, G.3 – PPNR Metrics): Seeking clarification on the FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.3 (PPNR Metrics), Line 42. Is the requirement to report the foreign subsidiary revenue or US revenue from international customers? A: FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.3, line 42 should reflect the revenues of the consolidated reporting institution that derive from foreign (non-U.S.) countries. (FRB Response: August 28, 2024) Q (Y140001496, G.2 – PPNR Net Interest Income (NII)): Schedule G.2 - PPNR Net Interest Income Worksheet line item 6.C requires to report the average balance of "Other" loans including loans back by securities (non-purpose lending). We received direct guidance from FRB to report all loans backed by securities including purpose ( reported on FRY-9C, Schedule HC-C line 9b1) and non-purpose loans in this line. We would like to confirm that all loans backed by securities including purpose and non-purpose should be reported in line item 6.C It will be very helpful if FRB can provide HC-C line reference for the loan population expected in PPNR NII Line item 6.C A: Per FR Y-14Q instructions, Schedule G.2, PPNR NII Worksheet, line item 6C captures residual consumer loan categories (other consumer loans not captured in line items above). Only consumer loans backed by securities (non-purpose loans) not captured in earlier consumer line items 6A and 6B would be reported in line items 6C. An exact FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C, line item reference cannot be provided for the loan population expected in FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.2, PPNR NII Worksheet, line item 6C, but this line item would include a portion of the loan population included in lines 6(b) ("Other revolving credit plans") and 6(d) ("Other Consumer Loans") of FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C. (Note, however, that neither is an exact match.) Further, as noted in Q&A Y140000209, for the purpose of FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.2, loans reported on FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C, line item 9(b)(1) ("Loans for purchasing or carrying securities") should be reported on FR Y-14Q, Schedule G.2, line item 8 ("Other Loans and Leases"). (FRB Response: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001497, G.2 – PPNR Net Interest Income (NII)): Schedule G.2 - PPNR Net Interest Income Worksheet line item 6.C requires to report the average balance of "Other" loans including loans back by securities (non-purpose lending). We would like to confirm that all of the non-purpose loans i.e. not only the consumer loans but also loans to trusts, nonprofit institutions and others should be reported in line item 6.C. It will be very helpful if FRB can provide HC-C line reference for the loan population expected in PPNR NII Line item 6.C A: Per FR Y-14Q instructions, Schedule G.2 (PPNR NII) line item 6.C captures residual consumer loan categories (other consumer loans not captured in line items above 6.C on the schedule). Only consumer non-purpose loans/loans backed by securities would be reported in line item 6.C. Non-consumer non-purpose loans not captured in earlier non-consumer line items—including loans to trusts, nonprofit institutions, and others—would be reported in line item 8 (other loans and leases). (FRB Response: November 3, 2022) Q (Y140000741, G.3 – PPNR Metrics): What is included for Syndicated Lending, line items 24-26, in the PPNR Metrics schedule? Are these line items specifically for syndicated loans from a Leveraged Capital Markets desk or are revolving credit facilities included as well? A: For PPNR Metrics related to Syndicated Lending (Line items 24-26), include volume and market size information relevant for projecting noninterest income associated with PPNR line item Line item 16D – Syndicated/Corporate Lending Noninterest Income. This can include origination and syndication of non-interest income associated with both revolving and term loans, as well as from both investment grade and non-investment grade activity. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000708, G.2 – PPNR Net Interest Income (NII)): Relates to 14Q, Schedule G.2. For G.2 line 3 C&I Loans, are we reporting here average balances of loans which are reported on FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C (HC-C) line 4. Or are we reverting to the definition of other graded commercial loans and leases as reported on 14Q Schedule M Balances (Schedule M) where HC-C loans reported on line 9b2 are reported on Schedule M as "Other commercial loans"? Schedule M refers to HC-C lines 9a, 9b2 as other graded commercial loans and they are reported as wholesale corporate loans on 14Q Schedule H1. In other words, which HC-C loan lines are considered C&I for purposes of mapping to 14Q Schedule G.2 line 3? Further, although Schedule M considers HC-C loans reported in line 9b2 as Other commercial graded, if not reportable in line 3 on G.2, should they be reported in line 8 on G.2? A: The firm should report average balances of Commercial and industrial (C&I) Graded, Small Business (Scored/Delinquency Managed), Corporate Card, and Business Card loans in line item 3 of the FR Y-14Q Schedule G.2 Net II Worksheet. Loans that fall outside of lines 1-7B in this schedule should be reported in line item 8 "Other Loans and Leases" as defined in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C, item 1.b, column B. Schedule M.1 Quarter-end C&I balances should be reported consistent with the instructions for line items 2.a-2.c and in line item 5.e. (FRB Response: November 29, 2017) Schedule H—Wholesale Risk Q (Y140001718, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): These follow-up questions aim to clarify your response to FAQ ID#Y140000467. The FAQ provides guidance on reporting an origination amount when a loan is syndicated after origination and subsequent paydowns occur. It states that a firm should update the origination amount to reflect its reduced share of the credit commitment after the syndication, thereby decreasing the previously reported origination amount, with the paydowns having no impact on the origination amount. Based on this, we seek clarification on how a firm should report the origination amount in the following scenarios (Note: all scenarios are NOT treated as major modifications): When a firm sells a portion of its originated loan after origination (e.g., participation out, not syndication) and there are no significant changes to the contract terms and the origination date remains unchanged, should the firm consistently apply the guidance from FAQY140000467 in this scenario and reduce the origination amount? In cases where a commitment amount in a syndication deal is downsized without changing the firm's share of the commitment amount after origination, should the firm also apply the guidance in the FAQ and reduce the origination amount? How about downsizing of a bilateral credit facility after origination? Should the firm reduce the origination amount? How should the firm report cases where it subsequently purchases other participant's share in a syndication facility and increases its syndication share? Should the firm increase the origination amount? How should the firm report cases where the commitment amount in a syndication deal is upsized or downsized with a change in the firm's share of the commitment amount? Should the firm change the origination amount to report to reflect the changed share only or both the changed share and upsized/downsized commitment amount? For example, the original commitment amount increased from $100 million to $200 million with the firm's share changed from 50% to 20%, should the Firm report $20 million (=$100 million X 20%) as the origination amount or $40 million (=$200 million X 20%)? A: First, per Q&A Y140001705, "For the purposes of reporting origination date, a major modification occurs if, and only if, the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement." To the extent that this criterion is fulfilled in any of the scenarios described below, the firm should also report an updated origination date (Field 10) for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2. Next, with respect to each of the scenarios posed, the firm should report the origination amount (field 34) and other values on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 as described below: Yes, the firm should apply the guidance from Q&A Y140000467 in cases of post-close participation. More specifically, when a firm sells a portion of its originated loan after origination, the firm should reduce the origination amount (Field 34) by the amount of the loan portion that is participated out. Additionally, the firm should report values for Net Operating Income at Origination (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34) that reflect its new participation interest and should update the value given in Participation Interest (Field 59). In cases where a commitment amount in a syndication deal is downsized without changing the firm's share of the commitment amount after origination, the firm should report the reduced origination amount (Field 34). In situations where a bilateral credit facility is downsized after origination, the firm should report the reduced origination amount (Field 34). In situations where a firm purchases another participant's share in a syndication facility, thereby increasing its syndication share, post-origination, the firm should increase the origination amount (Field 34) to reflect the new participation interest. In addition, the firm should report values in Net Operating Income at Origination (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34) that reflect its new participation interest and should update the value given in Participation Interest (Field 59). In cases post-origination, where the commitment amount in a syndication deal is upsized or downsized with a change in the firm's share of the commitment amount, the firm should report an origination amount (Field 34) that reflects both the updated commitment amount and the firm's updated participation interest. In addition, the firm should report values in Net Operating Income at Origination (Field 12) and Value at Origination (Field 13) to reflect its new participation interest. Finally, the firm should update the value given in Participation Interest (Field 59). (FRB Response: April 2, 2026) Q (Y140001743, General): FR Y-14Q instructions require reporting the Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) of the obligor (FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 111/H.2 Field 72) and primary source of repayment (FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 112) for corporate (H.1) and CRE (H.2) loans, and the LEI of the counterparty (FR Y-14Q Schedule L) and consolidated/parent counterparty (FR Y-14Q Schedule L) for derivatives and securities financing transactions. FR Y-14Q Schedule H (Wholesale Risk) instructions require reporting a “valid 20-character alphanumeric LEI." or 'NA' while Schedule L instructions require reporting a different unique identifier when “a globally recognized LEI is unavailable.". Instructions do not address whether LEIs with a "Retired" Registration Status, which indicates an "Inactive" Entity Status, should be reported or excluded from these schedules (i.e., considered 'invalid'). Per the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF) State Transition and Validation Rules for Common Data File formats (STVR), a "Retired" Registration Status is part of the Registration Life Cycle and still published. If an LEI Registration Status is "Retired" and/or entity status is "Inactive" should the LEI still be considered "valid" and "available" for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, H.2 and L reporting? A: Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) should be reported with the most recent and accurate information available, regardless of its status in the registration life cycle. Even if its status is "retired" or "inactive," an LEI should be reported (assuming it has not been replaced by a new LEI). (FRB Response: April 2, 2026) Q (Y140001755, H.1 - Corporate Loan Data): For the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 and the Obligor Financial Statement Data section, the following exclusions are identified in the instructions: "Fields 52 through 82 (Obligor Financial Data section), must be reported for all corporate loans and leases as of the report date, excluding loans with: An obligor domiciled (as defined in the FR Y-9C Glossary entry for "domicile") outside of the US (Field 6); An obligor with a NAICS code beginning with 52 (Finance and Insurance), or 5312 (Real Estate Agents and Brokers), or 551111 (Offices of Bank or Intermediate Holding Companies); An obligor that is a nonprofit organization or federal, state, or local government or related agencies; or An obligor that is a Natural Person (including individuals doing business as (DBA) another entity where the primary source of repayment analyzed is the personal credit of the natural person behind the DBA)." In the FR Y-14Q technical instructions, FR Y-14Q_2025Q4_CIL_Edits_V1, footnote 1 includes NAICS Codes that are not listed in the report instructions. Should reporting firms use the NAICS Codes listed in the edit footnote to determine the scope of this exclusion, even though many are not specifically identified in the exclusion criteria within the report instructions? A: For the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, the technical instructions CIL Edit Check Footnote 1 is not intended to specify NAICS codes which meet the criteria, listed in section C. of the Schedule H.1 instructions, for exclusion from the requirement to report Obligor Financial Data. The footnote should not be used to determine which facilities qualify for this exclusion. (FRB Response: March 26, 2026) Q (Y140001690, H.2 - Commercial Real Estate): Instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 33 and Schedule H.2 Field 38 ("Non-Accrual Date") state: "For fully undrawn commitments, enter 9999-12-31." We would like to request clarifying guidance on the following scenarios: A facility with an outstanding balance may be placed into nonaccrual status, and at a later date the credit facility has a zero outstanding balance. In this scenario, the facility is active and in non-accrual status despite the zero outstanding principal balance. Should the facility be reported with a non-accrual date reflecting the date it was placed on non-accrual status, or should it be considered "fully undrawn" and reported as "9999-12-31"? Schedule H.1 Field 33 instructions state "For fronting exposures, report the date the fronting facility was placed on non-accrual." When a syndicated facility is placed in non-accrual status, this status applies to all loans under the facility including fronting exposures. Applying the instruction for fronting exposures leads us to report the same non-accrual date for the primary facility and all related fronting facilities, regardless of whether the fronting facilities are drawn. Applying the instruction for fully undrawn commitments to results in reporting fronting facilities as "9999-12-31" and reporting the primary facility with a valid non-accrual date. Should fully undrawn fronting facilities always be reported as "9999-12-31", or should the non-accrual date applicable to the entire credit facility be reported? A: The instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 33 and Schedule H.2 Field 38 both state, "Report the date the credit facility was placed on non-accrual, if applicable." The instructions further provide, "For fully undrawn commitments, enter 9999-12-31." The instruction to report fully undrawn facilities with the value "9999-12-31" supersedes other considerations. Therefore, in both the examples given, the Non-Accrual Date should be reported as "9999-12-31" since the facility is fully undrawn, regardless of the fact that it is currently on non-accrual status. (FRB Response: March 26, 2026) Q (Y140001752, H.2 - Commercial Real Estate): Per the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 Commercial Real Estate instructions for line item 12, ("Net Operating Income at Origination"), the BHC should report 'NA' for land and construction loans that are (1) not generating income; and (2) not cross-collateralized with another property generating income. It is clear that Net Operating Income at Origination should be reported as 'NA' during the construction phase, however, when the construction phase is completed and the loan converts from a construction loan to a mortgage or permanent loan, what value should be reported for Net Operating Income at Origination? Since this value should not change from origination, should Net Operating Income at Origination be reported as 'NA' for the lifetime of the loan's existence, should the Net Operating Income of the completed construction be reported, or should the field be left NULL since it is no longer a construction loan and 'NA' is not to be used for non-construction loans? A: As noted in the question, firms should populate "NA" in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 Field 12 "Net Operating Income at Origination," "[f]or land and construction loans that are (1) not generating income; and (2) not cross-collateralized with another property generating income." However, as noted in the instructions for Field 10 "Origination Date," "if there has been a major modification to the loan such that the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement, [firms should] use the revised contractual date of the credit agreement as the origination date." Therefore, if the loan's conversion from a construction loan to a permanent loan involves new loan terms such that a new or amended and restated credit agreement is executed, the origination date in Field 10 should be updated and the Net Operating Income at Origination in Field 12 should be reported based on the new origination date. If there is not a major modification, the firm should continue to report NA for Net Operating Income at Origination. (FRB Response: March 26, 2026) Q (Y140001740, H.1 - Corporate Loan Data): The firm is seeking clarity on the reporting requirements and instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 93 ("Collateral Market Value") (CMV). What criteria define 'ongoing or periodic valuation' referenced in the instructions - for example, does this refer to valuations performed at fixed intervals (e.g., quarterly, annually), or does it include event-driven valuations (e.g., triggered by credit deterioration or covenant breaches)? Additionally, is there a minimum frequency or method that qualifies a facility for this classification? What constitutes 'market value' in this instruction - should it be based on internal models, third-party appraisals or observable market prices? Is the CMV field intended to fluctuate from a value to 'NA' if the market value was not updated in the risk system during the current reporting period? If there is quarterly fluctuation, would this affect the FRB's use of the CMV field for stress testing or monitoring? A: Report the market value of the collateral as of the reporting date using the firm's internal risk management system. While event-driven valuations are not considered ongoing or periodic, there is no minimum valuation frequency or method that would exclude facilities subject to ongoing or periodic valuation from reporting market value of collateral. Consistent with the instructions to the FR Y-9C, the market value of securities should be determined, to the extent possible, by timely reference to the best available source of current market quotations or other data on relative current value. See the FR Y-9C glossary for Market (Fair) Value of Securities for examples. If the market value of collateral is not updated in the reporting entity's internal risk management systems as of the reporting date, report NA. See the stress test model documentation available on the Board's website for more information on the use of data in the stress test models. (FRB Response: March 26, 2026) Q (Y140001732, H.2 - Commercial Real Estate): We are seeking guidance on reporting Current Value (FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 - CRE Field 42) and Participation Interest (FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 - CRE Field 59) for cross collateralized loans. We hold taxable and non-taxable tranches of loans where we report each tranche as separate facilities and would like to confirm how to report participation interest and Current Value for each tranche. Please see below example and two different options. Global Commitment Amount $100mm. There are 2 separate global cross collateralized facilities as follows: Facility 1 -> 50mm Facility 2 -> 50mm Appraised value of the property $250mm. BHC holds 2 cross-collateralized loans with total loan amount of $50mm reported in two separate cross-collateralized facilities as follows. Facility 1 -> 20mm Facility 2 -> 30mm Option 1: Report the participation interest for each tranche as the percentage of the total global commitment. Facility 1 -> 20mm; participation percentage 20% = 20/100; Current Value $50mm = 20%*250mm Facility 2 -> 30mm; participation percentage 30% = 30/100; Current Value $75mm = 30%*250mm Option 2: Report the participation interest for each tranche as the percentage of the total commitment of 2 loans BHC holds vs the global commitment. Facility 1 -> 20mm; participation percentage 50% = 50/100mm; Current Value $125mm = 50%*250mm Facility 2 -> 30mm; participation percentage 50% = 50/100mm; Current Value $125mm = 50%*250mm Option 3: Report the participation interest for each tranche as the percentage of the total commitment the BHC holds of each individual tranche. Facility 1 -> 20mm; participation percentage 40% = 20/50mm; Current Value $100mm = 40%*250mm Facility 2 -> 30mm; participation percentage 60% = 30/50mm; Current Value $150mm = 60%*250mm A: For purposes of Y-14Q Schedule H.2, cross-collateralized loans are defined as "those in which the collateral securing one loan is also used as collateral for other loans." For Field 42 Current Value of FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2, value is "prorated based on the bank's ownership interest in a facility" and in cases of cross-collateralization, firms should "provide the sum of all property values as adjusted for prorated participations." For Field 59 Participation Interest of FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2, firms should "report the percentage of the total loan commitment held" for participated or syndicated credit facilities, with the value expressed as a decimal. For the provided example, none of the three reporting options posed are entirely correct. Instead, in the provided example, for Participation Interest (Field 59), 0.20 should be reported for BHC Facility 1, and 0.30 should be reported for BHC Facility 2. For Current Value (Field 42), $125 million should be reported for both BHC Facility 1 and for BHC Facility 2. For BHC Facility 1, the participation-adjusted property value is $50 million. For BHC Facility 2, the participation-adjusted value is $75 million. The sum of participation-adjusted property values, therefore, is $125 million and should be reported for both BHC Facility 1 and BHC Facility 2, as they are cross-collateralized. (FRB Response: March 19, 2026) Q (Y140001517, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Unfunded interest rate information is not available for some facilities (e.g. commitments to issue a commitment), should the Interest Rate Variability (Field 37 / Field 26) be reported as '4' Fee Based? A: For fully undrawn commitments, report interest rate variability that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. If such fully undrawn credit facility allows for either fixed or floating draws at the borrower's discretion, then report '3' (Mixed). For facilities where revenue is entirely fee based and no interest is or will ever be collected, enter '4' (Entirely fee based). (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001390, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question #1 – Facility Type 2 – Revolving credit converting to term loan For what types of facilities should the firms use facility type "2 – Revolving Credit Converting to Term Loan" for Schedule H.1, Field 20, Credit Facility Type? More specifically, the Firm has the following questions: Does this type of facility include only those lines of credit that start as a revolving line of credit and must be converted to a term loan later in its life? Should this include revolving credit facilities with contractual terms that permit conversion of the revolving line into a term loan but don't require conversion? Should the revolving credit facilities with contractual terms that require or permit conversion of the revolving line into a term loan be reported as the Facility Type 2 throughout the entire term of the loan or only during the revolving period? For example, with respect to a 5 year credit facility that will be a revolving line credit for the first three years and will become a term loan at year 4, should this facility be reported as Facility Type 2 for all five years or only for the first three years? The Firm currently utilize Facility Type 1 – Revolving credit for the first three years and then utilize Facility Type 7 – Term Loan for the year 4-5 that the facility is converted to a term loan in the example above. The Firm's current practice of reporting the facility as Type 7 after the conversion is based on an instruction from the FRB resulting from the recent examination. The Firm will continue its current practice, until instructed to report otherwise. Question # 2 – How should we determine the primary credit facility type? For the revolving credit facilities with contractual terms that permit or require conversion of the revolving line into a term loan but also contain the features of other facility types, such as Facility Type – 3 Revolving Credit – Asset Based or Facility Type – 4 Revolving Credit – DIP, how should we determine the primary credit facility type? For example, if the revolving credit facility permits conversion to a term loan and is also an Asset-Based facility (i.e., secured by specific assets pledged as collateral where the amount of financing is determined by the quality or value of the assets), should this facility be reported as Facility Type 2 or Facility Type 3, or just Facility Type 1? The Firm would currently report the facility in the example above as Facility Type 3 because the Firm does not utilize Facility Type 2 for the reason stated in Question #1. Background: The Schedule H.1 Field 20 instruction requires firms to report credit facility type which the descriptions and codes mirror the requirements for Shared National Credit reporting. However, there is no definition on descriptions and codes for credit facility types. A: Answer 1: With respect to the Schedule H.1, Field 20, ("Credit Facility Type"), the firm should report the credit facility type that best describes the credit facility as of the reporting date. For a facility that begins as a revolving facility and that must convert to a term facility, report the facility as revolving-converting-to-term if the reporting date happens before the conversion, and term otherwise. Answer 2: For revolving credit facilities that also contain the features of other facility types, the firm should report the type that most closely captures the characteristics of the facility as of the reporting date. In this case, it is acceptable to keep reporting the facility as type 3. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001352, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): For the purposes of reporting Credit Facility Purpose in Field 22 on Schedule H.1, should the firms use purpose code 28 NON-PURPOSE LOAN COLLATERALIZED BY SECURITIES to report a non-purpose loan that is collateralized by cash? Background: The Schedule H.1 Field 22 instruction requires firms to report credit facility purpose based on the 34 listed credit purpose descriptions. General instructions for Schedule H1 state that for purposes of this schedule, non-purpose loans are loans collateralized by securities made for any purpose other than purchasing or carrying securities. However, according to FAQ Y140000264 related to Schedule M of FR Y-14Q, a loan is considered to be a non-purpose loan if it is 100% collateralized by cash or securities. Also, there is FAQ Y140000349 that suggests to report non-purpose loans secured by foreign currency in FR Y-14Q Schedule M line 5.e -'Other commercial loans' where other commercial non-purpose loans are reported. Given the same non-purpose loan definition is used for Schedule H and Schedule M of FR Y-14Q, the Firm believes that non-purpose loans may also be loans collateralized by cash (i.e., foreign currency) based on the two FAQs. The Firm is seeking guidance regarding this facility purpose code and will continue its current practice (reporting loans collateralized by cash as 28 NON-PURPOSE LOAN COLLATERALIZED BY SECURITIES) until instructed to report otherwise. A: For Field 22 ("Credit Facility Purpose") on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, report facilities that are non-purpose and collateralized by cash as option 0, "OTHER." Do not report such loans as option 28, "NON-PURPOSE LOAN COLLATERALIZED BY SECURITIES." Field 23 may be used to indicate that the facility is a non-purpose loan collateralized by cash. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001334, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): For the purposes of reporting Credit Facility Purpose in Field 22 on Schedule H.1, how should firms differentiate between the 2 options below? 21 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT/PERMANENT FINANCING – RESIDENTIAL 22 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT/PERMANENT FINANCING – COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL Background: The Schedule H.1 Field 22 instruction requires firms to report credit facility purpose based on the 30 listed credit purpose descriptions. Absent definitions for the purpose codes, including "21 – Real Estate Investment/Permanent Financing - Residential" and "22 – Real Estate Investment/Permanent Financing – Commercial and Industrial ("C&I"), one can use either property type or credit risk considerations in order to distinguish between the two reporting options. The Firm differentiates between these options based on credit risk considerations. For example, a loan to finance a purchase of multifamily property (i.e., 5 or more unit residential building) is underwritten like a commercial loan, as opposed to residential mortgage. Underwriting evaluates future income and projected cash flows in order to assess credit risk for this type of credit facilities. Therefore, the Firm currently reports facilities financing purchases of multifamily buildings as "22 – Real Estate Investment/Permanent Financing – Commercial and Industrial." The Firm is seeking guidance regarding these two reporting options and will continue its current practice until instructed to report otherwise. A: With respect to the Schedule H.1, Field 22 ("Credit Facility Purpose") the firm should report the credit facility purpose that best describes the credit facility as of the reporting date. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q(Y140001617, H.1 - Corporate Loan Data): For FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, Field Number 37 - "Interest Rate Variability", the Firm is required to distinguish whether a facility is charging interest or is entirely fee-based. The Firm has the following questions in relation to standby letters of credit and other types of letters of credit (hereafter referred to as LOCs). 1. Should the Firm take LOC default provisions into consideration in determining whether a LOC is entirely-fee based? The Firm issues standby LOCs or other types of LOCs for a LOC fee. However, the LOC terms allow the Firm to charge an obligor interest only when the obligor fails to repay the funded letter of credit, in the event of default. According to Q&A Y140001337, facilities that have the potential for interest to be collected should not be reported as entirely fee-based facilities. 2. Should the Firm report an LOC facility as entirely fee-based in the following scenario? In all instances of LOC defaults, the Firm enters into a loan agreement with the obligor to replace the funded LOC. Therefore, the Firm's current practice is to not charge the obligor interest during the term of the LOC. That is, interest would only be charged under the loan agreement replacing the defaulted LOC. Should the Firm take this practice into consideration for determining whether a LOC is entirely fee based when no interest is charged, even in cases where the default clause of the LOC allows the Firm to charge interest? Background: It is common for standby LOCs or other types of LOCs to have a default clause in the terms and conditions that allow the guarantor (the Firm) to charge the obligor of letter credit a rate of interest in the event of default. Per FRB Q&A Y140001337, facilities that have the potential for interest to be collected should not be reported as fee-based facilities. However, it is not clear if that potential for interest includes contingencies such as defaults. In addition, Q&A Y140001506 indicates a standby LOC is a product that does not include the potential for interest to be collected and may only accrue fees. Therefore, it would be reported as entirely fee-based. These Q&As do not provide guidance as to whether standby, or other types of LOCs that have the default clause allowing charging of interest, should be reported as entirely fee-based. Current practice: The Firm currently reports standby LOCs and other LOCs with default clauses as "4. Entirely fee based" in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 37. We believe this practice is appropriate because the LOC is only allowed to charge interest in the event of default. In the event of default, the Firm would not charge interest on the LOC, however interest would be charged on the new loan agreement replacing the LOC. Additionally, if the Firm were to report an interest rate (Fields 37-42) for LOCs, as if they were funded, this would be misleading since LOC defaults have been very rare for the Firm historically and have not generated interest income. The Firm will continue its current practice unless instructed otherwise by the FRB. A: For FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, Field Number 37 - "Interest Rate Variability", the instructions indicate that the value "4. Entirely fee-based" should be used for cases where no interest is or ever will be collected. Therefore, this option should not be used for facilities such as LOCs with default clauses that allow the firm to charge interest, even if the firm's typical practice is not to charge interest in these cases. Regarding Fields 37-42, for fully undrawn commitments, report the information that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. Per the general instructions for the Y-14Q, if information is not available, and no 'NA'-type option is offered, fields should be left blank. (FRB Response: February 5, 2026) Q (Y140001539, H.1 - Corporate Loan Data): Wholesale Schedule H.1 requires firms to report potential exposures from the syndicated loan pipeline including exposures where the BHC has signed a commitment letter and has extended terms to the borrower, even if the borrower has not countersigned the commitment letter. We need clarification on reporting of "Obligor Financial Data Section" for the aforementioned exposures. Not closed or recently closed deals that loans extended to Obligors will usually not have reported financial data close after origination as in the case of new companies/obligors being formed (through a buyout, merger or other means) there is no "actual" or historical obligor financial data existing and that the obligors are required to provide us with their first set of financial data only 2-3 quarters after the closing date as per the Credit Agreements. While these cases are not covered in the instructions directly is there a way to get further regulatory guidance on how to report the obligor financial for these type of exposures? A: As stated in the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data) instructions for the Obligor Financial Data section, with respect to Fields 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, and 82, "if an obligor lacks trailing twelve months of financial information... provide the underwritten annual information." In the example given, for these fields, the firm should report the financial information that was used to underwrite the loan in lieu of actual data until such time as actual data become available. With respect to other fields in the Obligor Financial Data section that request historical information, these fields should be populated with the most recent financial statement data available as of the report date (i.e. the most recent financial data found in the consolidated holding company's financial spreading system as of the report date) and should not be bound by financial statement data that was used in the consolidated holding company's most recent formal rating review. If no such financial statement data exists, it is appropriate to leave the relevant fields blank." (FRB Response: February 5, 2026) Q (Y140001635, General): We are seeking clarifications as to how Collateral Market Value (Field 93) should be reported on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 under the below scenario, assuming that the market value of the collateral is updated in the internal risk management systems as of the reporting date. If credit facilities under separate credit agreements are secured by the same collateral item(s), should the same CMV be reported for these cross collateralized facilities, or should the CMV be allocated to cross collateralized facilities (e.g., based on Committed Exposure Global , Utilized Exposure)? Assume that BHC has a $60MM revolver and a $40MM term loan to the same borrower under separate credit agreements. The revolver is not utilized and the term loan is fully funded. If the borrower pledges a $100MM pool of cash and marketable securities for the two facilities, should we report $100MM (i.e., the same CMV) for both the revolver and the term loan (this would mean that the CMV would be duplicated) or allocate the CMV to cross collateralized facilities? If the latter, one option would be to allocate $60MM to revolver and $40MM to term loan (i.e., based on Committed Exposure Global). The other option would be to allocate $100MM to the term loan as it is fully funded, and report $0 under CMV for the revolver, which is unfunded. If second allocation methodology is to be used, how should we report Collateral Market Value if both facilities are not utilized? A: With respect to FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 93 (Collateral Market Value), for credit facilities with separate credit agreements that are secured by the same collateral, provide the value as of the reporting date of any collateral that serves as security for a given credit facility. For the example provided, for a borrower with a $60 million revolving loan under one credit agreement and a $40 million term loan under a second credit agreement, if that borrower pledges $100 million for both facilities, it is appropriate to report $100 million as Collateral Market Value for each credit agreement. (FRB Response: February 5, 2026) Q (Y140001750, General): The Board recently approved revisions to the FR Y-9C that include changes for margin loan reporting effective for the March 31, 2026, report date. These revisions may impact firm reporting on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data). In particular, the FR Y-9C changes may result in some facilities shifting from Schedule HC-C line items that are reportable categories on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 to line 9.b.(1) of Schedule HC-C, which is not a reportable category on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1. In addition, firms may elect to early-adopt the relevant FR Y-9C change for the December 31, 2025, report date. In either case, how should firms reflect these Y-9C reporting changes on Y-14Q Schedule H.1 for facilities that are affected? A: In the quarter in which the firm adopts the FR Y-9C margin loan reporting change, any facilities previously reportable on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 that shift to FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C line item 9.b.(1) should be reported on Schedule H.1 for the final time, indicating their disposition. For these records, the firm should report Field 98, "Disposition Flag," with a value of 7 ("Transfer to another Y-14 schedule") and Field 99, "Disposition Schedule Shift," with a value of "Q.M", reflecting the fact that the facility has shifted to a FR Y-9C line item that is only reportable on the FR Y-14Q Schedule M (Balances). In subsequent quarters, these facilities should no longer be reported on Schedule H.1. (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001707, H.1 - Corporate Loan Data): In regards to the reporting of interest rates for fully unfunded facilities on the FR Y-14Q H.1 Wholesale Corporate Loan Schedule, the BHC is requesting guidance as to the approach for cases with multiple interest rates. According to the instructions for field 38. Interest Rate, a dollar weighted average interest rate is to be reported. To calculate a dollar weighted average interest rate, the following parameters are required; 1. All in rate (interest rate + spread) and 2. Utilized Exposure under each pricing option. However, the future funding proportion of unfunded facilities for each pricing option as well as the interest rate at which the borrower would consent to draw the loan cannot be determined upfront. Alternatively, the BHC applies the most conservative approach by reporting the highest interest rate as of origination until the facility is funded. Is it acceptable to report the most conservative highest value, (i.e. spread) as is the current practice? A: As stated in the instructions for the Interest Rate field, for fully undrawn commitments, report the interest rate that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. In cases where there are multiple possible ways that the facility could be funded and fully drawn, which would result in different interest rates, it is appropriate for the firm to report the highest among these possible rates. (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001510, H.2 - Commercial Real Estate): In FAQ Y140000887, the FRB clarified that in Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) fronting obligations should be reported as separate credit facilities to each of the lending group participants. As a follow-up to this response, we would appreciate the FRB's assistance with the following questions to clarify expectations for reporting separate fronting credit facilities in Schedule H.2: 1. In Schedule H.1, Fronting Exposures are identified as such in the "Credit Facility Type" field but in Schedule H.2, there is no comparable field to distinguish fronting exposures from other Commercial Real Estate exposures. How should firms identify fronting exposures in Schedule H.2? 2. Multiple Schedule H.1 fields include instructions specific to fronting exposures, and comparable Schedule H.2 fields do not include such instructions (i.e. Credit Facility Purpose/Loan Purpose, Cumulative Charge-offs, Participation Interest, etc). Should firms apply all fronting-related instructions from Schedule H.1 to comparable fields within Schedule H.2? 3. Schedule H.2 contains multiple fields related to property/collateral, such as Property Type, Current Occupancy, Anchor Tenant, etc. For fronting exposures, should all such fields be reported consistent with the primary credit facility or should those fields be left blank? A: 1. There is currently no way to identify fronting obligations as such on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate Schedule). 2. In reporting fronting exposures in Schedule H.2, firms may follow guidance from Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data Schedule) for fields that are common or similar between the two schedules. In general, firms should report the item(s) according to their best understanding of the instructions and applicable fields, and may include explanatory comments to identify such. 3. When reporting fronting exposures in Schedule H.2, firms should report fields related to property/collateral consistent with the primary credit facility. As noted in response to Y-14 FAQ # 382, "for fronting credit facilities, generally any fields which may vary by participant lender should be unique. Fields which are duplicated from the primary credit facility are limited to those that reflect terms that are the same for both the fronting facility and primary facility such as Security Type." (FRB Response: January 29, 2026) Q (Y140001694, H.2 - Commercial Real Estate): 1. Is it appropriate to report the current occupancy based on number of units rather than square footage for multifamily residential properties? If not appropriate, how should the Firm report it in cases where the current occupancy is not provided in square footage for multifamily residential properties? 2. In case of a single mixed-use property (e.g., multifamily residential property with retail space), how should the occupancy be reported if the measurement unit is different between residential area and retail area? Is it appropriate to report the occupancy for the area of the predominant type? 3. Certain credit facilities are secured by multiple real estate properties. In case where the properties securing the facilities use different measurement units for occupancy (e.g., collateral includes multifamily residential properties (number of units) and warehouses (square footage), how should the occupancy be reported? Is it appropriate to use weighted average of occupancy using appraisal amounts as the weight? 4. For facility secured by multiple properties of the same use type in the same measurement unit (e.g., square footage), is it appropriate to use weighted average of occupancy based on their appraisal values? The Firm currently uses the reporting approaches indicated in the questions above and will continue to use them unless instructed otherwise. Background: Q1: Given the following points, reporting the occupancy based on number of units seems appropriate. The instructions allow reporting the occupancy using # of units in case for a facility financing condo construction For multifamily properties it is the industry practice for the borrowers to provide the occupancy levels based on # of units as opposed to square footage This is consistent with reporting of Field 39, Property Size Q2: In case of a mixed-use single property, the measurement unit used for residential area (# of units) is often different from the one for retail space (square footage). Thus, it is difficult to calculate an occupancy for the entire property. In this case, reporting the occupancy for the predominant area seems reasonable. Q3: The instructions are silent with regards to facilities secured by multiple properties. In cases where different types of properties use different measurement types, a simple rate calculation cannot be used since they cannot be directly compared. Thus, a weighted average should be used and using the current appraised values as the weight is the most appropriate. Q4: In cases where the property types use the same measurement types but the economics of the different properties drastically vary (e.g., retail property vs. warehouse), it is not appropriate to directly compare them. Thus, applying the weighted average using the current appraisal value across facilities secured by multiple properties is more appropriate. A: FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) Field 23 states, "Report the current physical occupancy of rent-paying tenants (including tenants still in concessionary periods) as a % of net rentable square footage." - With respect to Question 1: no, it is not appropriate to report the current occupancy based on number of units rather than square footage for multifamily residential properties. In accordance with the instructions and FAQ #1417, report the current physical occupancy of rent-paying tenants as a percent of net rentable square footage. - With respect to Question 2: in accordance with the instructions, report the current physical occupancy of rent-paying tenants as a percent of net rentable square footage for mixed-used property. - With respect to Questions 3 and 4: in accordance with the instructions, report the current physical occupancy of rent-paying tenants as a percent of net rentable square footage for credit facilities secured by multiple real estate properties. Per the general Y-14Q instructions, if the required information is not available, and the conditions for reporting 'NA' are not met, the field should be left blank. (FRB Response: January 22, 2026) Q (Y140001691, H.2 - Commercial Real Estate): FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) instructions define cross-collateralized loans as follows: "For purposes of this schedule, cross-collateralized loans are those in which the collateral securing one loan is also used as collateral for other loans, even if that loan has less than $1 million committed balance." Field 44 (Cross Collateralized Loan Numbers) instructions state: "In this field, only report loans that share properties in the collateral pool." Report instructions require values for certain fields to be the same for loans that are cross-collateralized. For example, Field 12 (Net Operating Income at Origination) instructions state: "For cross-collateralized loans, the NOI provided should represent the total NOI from the underlying collateral pool. Therefore, the same NOI value should be reported for each of the cross-collateralized loans." We are requesting guidance on how to report scenarios where multiple loans share collateral, but the loans do not share an identical collateral pool. For example: Loan A is secured by Properties 1 and 2. Loan B is secured by Properties 1, 2, and 3. Property 1 has Origination NOI $100, Property 2 has Origination NOI $200, Property 3 has Origination NOI $300 Question 1: Should Loans A and B be reported as cross-collateralized within Field 44, or should loans only be reported as cross-collateralized loans when they share an identical collateral pool? Question 2: Based on the response to question 1, how should Field 12 be reported for Loans A and B. A: Per the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 instructions for Cross Collateralized Loan Numbers (Field 44), report the Loan Numbers (H.2 Field 1) for all the loans which are cross-collateralized with loans reported in Field 1 (i.e., loans that share properties in the collateral pool). Therefore, for the example given, report Loans A and B as cross-collateralized within Field 44 of Schedule H.2. Per the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 instructions for Net Operating Income at Origination (Field 12), "NOI is a loan level concept that represents the sum of the NOIs of all of the properties that secure the loan. For cross-collateralized loans, the NOI provided should represent the total NOI from the underlying collateral pool." Since NOI is a loan-level concept, the same NOI value should be reported for each of the cross-collateralized loans only if the loans share the same underlying collateral pool. In the example given, the loans do not share the same underlying collateral pool, so the firm should report Net Operating Income at Origination of $300 for Loan A and $600 for Loan B. (FRB Response: January 15, 2026) Q (Y140001706, General): Per the FR Y-14Q instructions, field 102 in Schedule H.1 and field 63 in Schedule H.2 required banks to report the allowance for credit losses per ASC 326-20 at the credit facility level. Can you please clarify if this should include the reserve on only the funded portion of the facility or should include the reserve on both the funded and unfunded portions of the facility. A: The item should include the reserve on both the funded and unfunded portions of the facility. (FRB Response: January 8, 2026) Q (Y140001519, H.1 - Corporate Loan Data): For fully undrawn credit facilities, how should firms report interest rate index (Field 39/Field 28) when an Index Floor calculates the highest interest rate, '4 - Other' or report the Index associated with the floor? A: The instructions to Schedule H.1, Field 39, and Schedule H.2, Field 28 (Interest Rate Index), state that, for fully undrawn commitments, a firm should report the interest rate index that would apply if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. If the interest rate that would apply is determined by an interest rate floor, report the associated index in these fields. In the case of a fully undrawn facility that allows for multiple interest rates, at the borrower's discretion, and the most conservative interest rate reported in Schedule H.1, Field 38, or Schedule H.2, Field 27 (Interest Rate), is determined by an index floor, report the associated index in Schedule H.1, Field 39, or Schedule H.2, Field 28. (FRB Response: January 8, 2026) Q (Y140001317, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: How should firms report "Credit Facility Purpose" in Field 22 on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) for facilities with more than one purpose documented and no predominant purpose is explicitly indicated? Background: The Schedule H.1 Field 22 instruction requires the firms to report the credit facility purpose from the listed credit purpose description. Prior FAQs state that "Credit Facility Purpose (Field 22) should be reported based on the facility's predominant purpose." Absent definitions in the Instructions for purpose code descriptions, the Firm believes its current practice of reporting "11 – General Corporate Purpose" when the facilities with more than one purpose is documented and no predominant purpose is explicitly stated is appropriate. For example, a credit agreement or credit memo could indicate its multiple purposes such as share repurchase, refinance, fee/expense management, acquisition, working capital, and general corporate purposes with no primary purpose explicitly indicated. In this example, the client has the option to use the proceeds based on the available options captured in the credit agreement. Therefore, selecting one of these purposes listed and reporting it as a primary purpose would provide misleading information as the actual use of the loan proceeds may not be for the purpose selected. In this case, reporting the purpose as "11 – General Corporate Purpose" would more accurately fit the actual purpose of the facility. The Firm will continue its current practice of reporting "11 – General Corporate Purpose" when facilities have more than one purpose documented and no predominant purpose is explicitly indicated until it is instructed to report otherwise. A: When reporting FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 22 ("Credit Facility Purpose"), report the credit facility purpose based on the predominant purpose of the credit facility, which is the purpose that best represents the commercial risk of the facility. In the situation provided, it is appropriate to report option 11, "General Corporate Purpose" as there is no other predominant purpose. (FRB Response: April 17, 2025) Q (Y140001728, General): Are firms expected to report an allowance for credits losses that is inclusive of both quantitative and qualitative components in Field 102 ("ASC326-20") of FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) and Field 63 ("ASC326-20") of FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate)? Specifically, should firms report allowances that are calculated directly via quantitative component (modeled outputs) only, or should qualitative factor adjustments (i.e., non-modeled outputs) be included as well? A: Consistent with ASC 326-20, allowance for credit losses reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) Field 102 and Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) Field 63 should include quantitative and qualitative factors used in estimating the end of period balance of the allowance for credit losses at the facility level. Allowances calculated at a (collective) pool level should be pro-rated to the facility level. (FRB Response: April 3, 2025) Q (Y140001664, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 (Corporate), Field No. 37 ("Interest Rate Variability") requires the Firm to report whether a credit facility is charging interest or is entirely fee-based. The Firm offers commercial charge cards whose revenue is derived from various types of fee income. One of those fees is a late/delinquency fee, which is reported as interest income on FR Y-9C. Given that the late/delinquency fee is only one of many types of fees charged and that it is incident based rather than accruing over the term of the facility like regular interest income, is it appropriate to classify commercial charge card facilities as entirely fee-based in Field No. 37 and other related fields in Schedule H.1? A: For purposes of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, Field No. 37 ("Interest Rate Variability"), a late payment fee for a commercial charge card should be considered a "fee," not "interest," if the charge card issuer requires payment of outstanding balances in full at the end of each billing cycle and the amount of the late fee is either a fixed dollar amount or is calculated as a percentage of the delinquent balance. (FRB Response: January 8, 2025) Q (Y140001429, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): We are seeking further clarification on the reporting requirements of Field 5 ("City"), Field 6 ("Country") and Field 7 ("Zip Code") on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate). Effective with the March 31, 2021 reporting, the Schedule H.1 instructions for the above Fields were updated to indicate that the domicile of the obligor is as defined in the FR Y-9C Glossary entry for "domicile". Per the FR Y-9C Glossary, "domicile is determined by the principal residence address of an individual or the principal business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship". We requested clarification on the reporting requirements related to the definition of domicile (i.e., whether the domicile represents the country of headquarters or the country of incorporation) for the FR Y-9C reporting. We received a response from the FRB that "the domicile of a corporation should be the location where it was legally established, regardless of the actual center of economic activity of the entity". The country of the head office or primary operations (i.e., the actual center of economic activity of the obligors) is the most impactful geography to the financial performance of the obligors. The country of incorporation may be different from the county of primary operations, due to tax or legal reasons and tends to be concentrated in tax havens. During stress periods, the economy of the country of incorporation may not have correlation with the performance of the obligors. For example, a company headquartered in the U.S. may be incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The U.S. economy will drive the company performance during stress rather than the Cayman Islands. As the FR Y-14 schedule data are used to assess the capital adequacy of large firms using forward-looking projections of revenue and losses, and to support supervisory stress test models, we would like to confirm whether the clarification that we have received for the FR Y-9C (to report based on the country of incorporation instead of the country of primary operations) should be applied to the FR Y-14 Schedule H.1. The definition of domicile will also impact Fields 52 through 82 (Obligor Financial Data section). We will continue to report country of the head office or primary operations of the obligors until we receive further clarification for the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1. A: Report Field 5 ("City"), Field 6 ("Country"), and Field 7 ("Zip Code") on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) using the FR Y-9C definition of domicile, consistent with the respective field instructions. (FRB Response: January 8, 2025) Q (Y140001080, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Field 44 ("Guarantor Flag"): In certain cases the BHC will take guaranties from Subsidiaries of the Borrower that do not add financial/repayment support. In these instances, the Guarantee is neither the primary nor secondary source of repayment, and the financial capacity of the Guarantor(s) is not independently assessed to determine sufficiency of cash flow or assets to meet any repayment obligation. The BHC is asking for clarification regarding whether a guarantee that does not add financial/repayment support should still be reported as a full/partial guarantee; i.e., in these situations should the BHC report value 4 (No Guaranty) or value 1 (Full guarantee) or 2 (Partial guarantee) (depending on the guaranty type). A: The reporting requirements for schedule H.1 (Corporate), field 44 ("Guarantor Flag") depend on whether there is explicit recourse for repayment of the credit obligation. For purposes of reporting field 44 ("Guarantor Flag"), option 4 (No Guarantee) should only be used when there is no explicit recourse for repayment of the credit obligation. (FRB Response: January 8, 2025) Q (Y140001051, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): The FR Y-14Q instructions for the Field 7 ("Zip Code") states "Report the five-digit zip code for locations within the 50 US states, Washington DC, Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, Guam, Palau, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, or the Marshall Islands. For all other locations report the foreign mailing code of the physical location of the obligor's headquarters" There are certain countries that do not use a zip code i.e. Hong Kong, UAE etc. What is the allowable value to report for these locations? A: For international locations that do not have a country-specific postal code, report FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate), Field 7 ("Zip Code") as NULL and note in the explanation of the edit check the fact that the country does not have a country-specific postal code. (FRB Response: January 8, 2025) Q (Y140001693, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) instructions state: "Include all corporate loans that are at the consolidated BHC, IHC and SLHC level and not just those of the banking subsidiaries, as well as any unused commitments that are reported on Schedule HC-L that would be reported in the relevant FR Y-9C category (as outlined below) if such loans were drawn (including all undrawn commitments extended to non-consolidated variable interest entities and commitments to commit as defined in the FR Y-9C)." The scope of commitments reported on the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-L is not clear, which has led to a divergence in industry practice related to the reporting of unused commitments associated with uncommitted or discretionary credit facilities (facilities that are structured so that the lender is not under any legal obligation to extend credit). Please confirm that unfunded amounts associated with committed or discretionary credit facilities are not reportable on Schedule H of the FR Y-14Q. A: Report on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 any unused commitment that the firm reports in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-L, Item 1, and that would be reported in one of the listed FR Y-9C corporate loan categories if such loan were drawn. The instructions to FR Y-9C Schedule HC-L, Item 1, define which types of credit arrangements are considered "commitments" for purposes of that Item. Uncommitted or discretionary credit facilities should be reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-L, Item 1, if they are a type of arrangement considered to be a reportable "commitment" under those instructions, and otherwise should not be reported in this Item. (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001689, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Report instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1/H.2 Field 18/10 ("Origination Date") state: "Report the origination date. The origination date is the contractual date of the credit agreement. (In most cases, this is the date the commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment)." Report instructions and published FAQ guidance do not provide clear expectations for scenarios where the contractual date of the credit agreement does not align with the date a commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment. This may occur when a credit agreement is dated March 11th, but on March 25th all conditions to the effectiveness of the credit agreement have been met and the agreement has been signed by all parties. Our approach for this scenario has been to report the Origination Date based on the date of the credit agreement (March 11th). Please clarify whether this approach aligns with the FRB's expectations for reporting the Origination Date field in Schedule H.1/H.2, or whether either date may be considered acceptable. A: As stated in the FR Y-14Q instructions, firms should report "the contractual date of the credit agreement" in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 18 and Schedule H.2 Field 10. The instructions note that "in most cases, this is the date the commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment." However, as the instructions acknowledge, such is not always the case, and firms should report the contractual date of the credit agreement, even if it is not the same as the date that the commitment to lend becomes legally binding. The firm's reporting practice in the example given is appropriate. (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001063, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Please confirm that no financials should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) in the obligor financial data section for primary source of repayment (PSR) where financial information from the individual entity identified as the PSR is not collected. For business scenarios where combined financials are used in the underwriting process and in the ongoing credit review process and financial statements are not available for the individual contributing entities, we are not able to provide financial information on an individual entity identified as the PSR. These scenarios arise where the credit agreement or operating model for facilities with multiple borrowers or multiple guarantors do not require financial statements for each of the entities contributing to the credit worthiness of the borrowing group (e.g., co-borrowers or guarantors). Our financial spreading and risk grading processes and policies only require evaluation of the combined financials and our systems only contain financial data for the combined borrowing group. As a result, financials are not collected for the PSR and, per FAQ Y140000784, we do "not report combined financials." Background: FAQ # Y140000784 Per the FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate instructions, the financials provided should be from the legal entity that provides the primary source of repayment. When there are multiple entities that are responsible for payment and there is no clear predominant borrower that serves as the primary source of repayment, the Obligor Financial Data Section should reflect the financial information of the singular entity that best represents the credit repayment capacity for the credit facility. Do not report combined financials. FR Y-14Q, Schedule H, instructions, The Obligor Financial Data Section relates to the legal entity that provides the primary source of repayment for the credit facility identified in Field 15. If the legal entity used by underwriting as the primary source of repayment is different from the legal entity actually making the payment, report the Obligor Financial Data Section for the entity used by underwriting. Note, the legal entity that provides the primary source of repayment will generally be different from the guarantor, which provides secondary support for repayment. Information related to the guarantor should be reported in Fields 44 through 48 of the Loan and Obligor Description section. A: Per the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 (Corporate) instructions, the financials provided should be from the legal entity that provides the primary source of repayment. When there are multiple entities that are responsible for payment and there is no clear predominant borrower that serves as the primary source of repayment, the Obligor Financial Data Section should reflect the financial information of the singular entity that best represents the credit repayment capacity for the credit facility. Do not report combined financials. If the financial information of the primary source of repayment is not available for the Obligor Financial Data Section, note this in the explanation of the edit check report. (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001705, General): The FR Y-14Q instructions state "If there has been a major modification to the loan such that the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement, use the revised contractual date of the credit agreement as the origination date." Question: Specifically, for this instruction, we wanted to understand what type of changes/examples in a loan can be considered as major modifications impacting the origination date. In most of the FAQs provided earlier on origination date, major modification examples are not explicitly mentioned and hence we are requesting your assistance to provide the same, which will make it clearer to understand what kind of amendments fit within the major modification category. A: For the purposes of reporting origination date, a major modification occurs if, and only if, the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement. Per a prior Q&A , "The definition of major modification is intended to capture amendments that change the terms of the loan materially enough such that the contractual date of the loan is changed (i.e., re-underwriting of a loan rather than a minor amendment to extend or renew a loan under similar terms)." (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001069, General): On FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate), Field 35 and Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate), Field 8, which are both "Lien Position", and in cases where the Firm has a security interest in underlying collateral supporting the facility, should the Firm' report values of "Second Lien" for H.1 and "Subordinated Lien" for H.2 only when another unrelated party holds the first lien interest in the collateral? Background The Firm sometimes originates supplemental facilities that are collateralized by the same property collateralizing a primary loan. These supplemental originations occur after the primary origination, and only where the value of the collateral supports the additional indebtedness. The firm perfects its interest in the collateral for the supplemental loan through recorded instruments (i.e. mortgages) as it would for the original/primary loan. Because the mortgages of these supplemental loans are recorded with the applicable county recorder's office (i.e. the real estate records) after the primary mortgage records, they are legally in second position. However, both the first and second liens are held by the Firm. From the lender's perspective, the Firm is not subordinate to another lender. From a credit risk perspective, both facilities are cross-defaulted/cross-collateralized and are underwritten utilizing a combined DSCR/LTV. As a result, the Firm reports "First-Lien Senior" on H.1 and "First Lien" on H.2, for both primary and secondary facilities, and will continue to report on this basis until we receive further clarification from you. A: On FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) field 35 ("Lien Position") and FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) field 8 ("Lien Position"), report the legally documented position of the collateral, regardless of which party holds other liens in the collateral. In the example provided, for credit facilities where the firm has a security interest in collateral that is legally in second position, report option 2 (Second Lien) for field 35 on FR Y-14Q schedule H.1 and option 2 (Subordinated Lien) for field 8 on FR Y-14Q schedule H.2. (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001651, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): On FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate), should loans with an interest rate index (field 39) of Refinitiv USD IBOR Cash Fallback be categorized with a value of 4. Other or 7. SOFR? A: The firm should report the interest rate index as "4. Other." (FRB Response: November 27, 2024) Q (Y140001673, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): In FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate) we report certain financing leases that do not have stated contractual interest rates defined within the lease agreement, as only the lease payments are defined in the agreement. A fixed interest rate or yield implied by the payment terms of the lease is recorded in our system of record to appropriately recognize income over the life of the lease, which is reported in Field 38 ("Interest Rate"). In response to a prior Q&A, guidance was provided to report Field 38 ("Interest Rate") as 'NULL' for leveraged leases with no stated contractual interest rate. Based on this FAQ guidance, should financing leases and other types of facilities where there is no stated contractual interest rate be reported as 'NULL' for Field 38 Interest Rate, or should we report the implied interest rate used to recognize income over the life of the facility? A: In FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 38 ("Interest Rate"), the Firm should report "NULL" for financing leases and other types of facilities where there is no stated contractual interest rate, and may provide the rationale in the comments of the edit check report. (FRB Response: Response: November 27, 2024) Q (Y140001665, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): The Firm has a pending sale of banking book loans which has price certainty. The loans may remain in inventory until settlement in Q1 of 2024, however while pending, the forward sale is treated as a hedge on the underlying non-trading loans. Can the FRB confirm it is acceptable to reflect the impact of the forward sale on the FR Y-14Q Schedule F (Trading) to ensure symmetrical reflection of risk to banking book loans reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H (Wholesale Risk). A: Yes, if the pending sale of banking book loans has price certainty, the firm may reflect the impact of the forward sale as a hedge on the appropriate version of the FR Y-14Q Schedule F (FVO Loan Hedge or Accrual Loan Hedge, depending on the accounting classification of the hedged loans). (FRB Response: November 13, 2024) Q (Y140001518, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Based on business practice, interest rate information to be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H may not be available on an unfunded facility until the point a client requests a draw. In those instances when the facility is fully undrawn, should a representative and most conservative estimate be used to report interest rate elements (Schedule H.1 Fields 37-42/ Schedule H.2 Fields 26-32)? A: For FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 field 37 and H.2 field 26 (Interest Rate Variability), for fully undrawn commitments, report interest rate variability that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. If such fully undrawn credit facility allows for either fixed or floating draws at the borrower's discretion, then report “3” (Mixed). For H.1 field 38 and H.2 field 27 (Interest Rate): (1) For fully undrawn commitments, report the interest rate that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. (2) For fully undrawn credit facilities that allow for multiple interest rates, when determining which rate to report, report the rate that was most conservative (highest) as of the most recent origination or renewal date. If the facility has been acquired more recently than the most recent origination or renewal date, report the rate that was most conservative as of the date of acquisition. (3) For credit facilities that are fully undrawn and include multiple lines of credit with different interest rates, enter the dollar weighted average interest rate that approximates the overall rate as if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. For H.1 field 39 and H.2 field 28 (Interest Rate Index), for fully undrawn commitments, report the interest rate index that would apply if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. If such fully undrawn credit facility allows for multiple indexes, report the interest rate index used to calculate H.1 field 38 (Interest Rate) or H.2 field 27 (Interest Rate). For H.1 fields 40, 41 and 42 (Interest Rate Spread, Interest Rate Ceiling, and Interest Rate Floor) and H.2 fields 29, 30, 31, and 32 (Interest Rate Spread, Interest Rate Ceiling, Interest Rate Floor, and Frequency of Rate Reset), report the information per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date. (FRB Response: October 9, 2024) Q (Y140001648, General): We have a follow up question on FAQ Y140001599 response received on November 5, 2023. The follow up question is: On FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Fields 54 through 82, if one obligor has $1million in capital expenditures in their financial package reflected as a positive number and a second obligor has $2 million capital expenditures which they present as a negative number in their financial package. Are we to report in H1 a positive number for the $1 million obligor and a negative $2 million for the second? A: Values reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Fields 54 through 82 should be reported as positive or negative consistent with how they are defined by the reporting entity's own financial spreading systems in accordance with its credit policy and GAAP standards. The obligor's formatting of the data is not relevant to the final reporting. In the example given, the firm should report the two quantities with consistent signs, depending on the definition in its own systems. If the firm's financial spreading system does not consistently assign positive or negative values to particular types of data, the firm must choose a consistent positive or negative sign convention for purposes of reporting the FR Y-14Q. (FRB Response: September 11, 2024) Q (Y140001669, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): The report instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 and Schedule H.2 require rounded values for certain fields (e.g. Schedule H.1 Field 24 Committed Exposure Global, Schedule H.1 Field 25 Utilized Exposure Global, etc.). There are other fields, such as Schedule H.1/H.2 Field 88/16 Probability of Default and H.1/H.2 Field 89/17 Loss Given Default, that require reporting up to a certain number of decimal places and do not include instructions on whether or not rounding should be applied for the last reportable decimal. We noted a prior FAQ (RTH0036) asking how to report certain FR Y-14M Schedule B fields that are reported "to 5 decimals," and the response stated: "Do not round off the data values." However, the scope of this FAQ guidance was not clear based on the example addressed. We are requesting clarification on whether that FAQ guidance should be applied more broadly to FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1/H.2 (and other FR Y-14M/Q schedules) and to scenarios where our source data may have more decimals than the field requires. For example, Schedule H.1 Field 88 Probability of Default is required to be reported to 4 decimal places. If a credit facility has a Probability of Default of 0.00805, should we truncate at 4 decimal places (0.0080) or should we develop a rounding convention that we apply consistently across facilities when populating this data? A: When reporting FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 and H.2 data items for which the instructions do not explicitly require rounding or otherwise state how to reduce decimal places, a firm may determine its own rounding convention. This rounding convention should be applied consistently. The prior guidance from FAQ RTH0036 should not be taken as generally applicable to other schedules and/or fields. (FRB Response: September 11, 2024) Q (Y140001692, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): We would appreciate clarifying guidance on which types of entities should be considered "individuals or Natural Persons" for purposes of Schedule H.1: Fields 4 (Obligor Name), 11 (TIN), 46 (Guarantor Name), 47 (Guarantor TIN), 50 (Entity Name) and H.2 Fields: 2 (Obligor Name). Does the definition of individual align with the Schedule HC-C definition and include a "trust or other entity that acts on behalf of (or in place of) an individual or a group of individuals"? Does the definition of individual include "individuals doing business as (DBA) another entity" as described in the Obligor Financial Data Section, such as sole proprietorships? A: For purposes of Schedule H.1: Fields 4 (Obligor Name), 11 (TIN), 46 (Guarantor Name), 47 (Guarantor TIN), and 50 (Entity Name) and H.2: Field 2 (Obligor Name), the term "individual(s) (Natural Person(s))" refers only to living human beings and human beings doing business as (DBA) another entity where the primary source of repayment analyzed is the personal credit of the natural person behind the DBA. For the name-related fields, the name of an entity should not automatically be replaced with "Individual" if the entity does not meet the definition of "individual(s) (Natural Person(s))" stated above. However, if the name of an entity contains the name of a natural person, that name may be masked in the firm's reporting of these fields. For example, for an obligor named "Estate of John Doe," the firm could report "Estate of [Individual]" or similar text in the name-related fields. (FRB Response: September 11, 2024) Q (Y140001095, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Are you able to advise if the reported market value for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 field #93 (Collateral Market Value) should be reported pre or post haircut? The post haircut value would take into account any collateral that is deemed to be not liquid by the reporting institution (that amount would not be reported). A: The amount reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 93 (Collateral Market Value) should be the market value of the collateral if the collateral requires ongoing or periodic valuation. If the firm's assessment of market value includes the haircut then report the post-haircut amount. If the firm's assessment of market value excludes the haircut (for example, haircuts are used for internal purposes unrelated to the determination of market value, such as establishing borrowing limits) then the pre-haircut amount should be reported. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001202, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): For collateral market value on Asset-Based deals, should we report the customer's book value (i.e. Lower of Cost or Market) or the net collateral value based on our margin requirements? A: The amount reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 93 (Collateral Market Value) should be the market value, not the lower of cost or market, of the collateral if the collateral requires ongoing or periodic valuation. The market value of collateral should be reported—without adjustments unrelated to the determination of market value—from the firm's internal risk-management system as of the reporting date. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001599, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): The instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 fields 52-82 do not indicate whether the value should be reported as a positive or negative sign. In many cases we can reasonably assume the correct signage. For example field 56 Operating Income is reported as a positive number if the obligor has positive operating income (a gain) and as a negative if operating income is a loss. Similarly the assets fields will be reported as positive. However for other fields like field 76 Current Liabilities, field 82 Capital Expenditures, the signage expected is not clear. Would all fields 52-82 naturally be reported as positive numbers, unless there is some unusual event or adjustment which result in a negative value on the financials? Alternatively would any fields naturally be reported as negative? A: Values reported in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Fields 54 through 82 should be reported as positive or negative consistent with how they are defined by the reporting entity's financial spreading systems, in accordance with its credit policy and GAAP standards. Fields 52 and 53 are date fields and are not subject to positive or negative signs. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001633, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Is it acceptable for the firm to report FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 collateral market value (field 93) capped at the exposure at default (field 90) or should the full value of the collateral be reported? A: The amount reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 93 (Collateral Market Value) should be the full market value of the collateral if the collateral requires ongoing or periodic valuation. The market value of collateral should be reported—without adjustments unrelated to the determination of market value—from the firm's internal risk-management system as of the reporting date. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001520, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): How should firms report interest rate (Field 38/Field 27), interest rate index (Field 39/Field 28) and interest rate spread (Field 40/Field 29) in FR Y-14Q Schedule H for fully undrawn credit facilities in the following scenarios? Undrawn facilities with a variable interest rate. Specifically, should firms report the interest rate as if these undrawn facilities were drawn (1) on the most recent origination/renewal date or (2) on the reporting date? (See Example 1 in the Background section for illustration) Credit facilities that allow for multiple indices at the borrower’s discretion. Should the reporting approach be consistent with the approach applied to scenario (1)? (See Example 2 in the Background section) If the [answer to either 1 or 2 above is the most recent origination date, and] data as of the most recent origination date is not available, would firms have an option to report interest rate data on undrawn facilities as if they were drawn on the reporting date? If a revolving credit facility is reported as drawn in one quarter, interest information is reported off the loan(s). In the next reporting quarter, if the facility is fully undrawn, should fully undrawn process take precedence to calculate the interest information or should the prior quarter data from the actual loan(s) be carried forward? Background: The instructions are not clear on whether firms should report the interest rate calculated (1) on the most recent origination date or (2) on the reporting date (see examples below for further illustration). Example 1: Variable Rate Facility A credit facility originated on March 31, 2021 has a variable interest rate of SOFR+2%: As of Origination date: SOFR= 0.45%; Calculated Rate (0.45% +2% spread) = 2.45% As of Reporting date (Dec. 31, 2021): SOFR= 1.75%; Calculated Rate (1.75% + 2 spread) = 3.75% As of the reporting date (December 31, 2021), what should firms report for Field 38? Option A: 2.45%, Rate calculated as of Origination date, or Option B: 3.75%, Rate calculated as of Reporting Date. Example 2: Facility that allows for multiple interest rates A credit facility originated on March 31, 2021 allows the borrower the following options for the interest rate: SOFR+2%, or Prime+1%. The below summarizes the data available for indices and calculated rates (assuming the spread remains unchanged): As of Origination date: SOFR = 0.45%; Calculated Rate (0.45%+2% spread) = 2.45% Prime = 2.50%; Calculated Rate (2.50%+1% spread) = 3.50% As of Reporting date (December 31, 2021): SOFR = 1.75%; Calculated Rate (1.75%+2% spread) = 3.75% Prime = 2.50%; Calculated Rate (2.50%+1% spread) = 3.50% As of reporting date (December 31, 2021), should firms report? Option A – 3.5% (Prime at origination date + 1% spread), the most conservative (highest) rate calculated as of the origination date; Option B – 3.75% (SOFR at reporting date + 2% spread), the most conservative (highest) rate calculated as of the reporting date; Option C – 3.50% (Prime at reporting date + 1% spread), Use the index that calculates the highest rate as of the origination date to calculate the rate as of the reporting date. A: For fully undrawn facilities with variable interest rates, report the interest rate that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, Field 38 (Interest Rate), or FRY-14Q Schedule H.2, Field 27 (Interest Rate). Option B (3.75%) as described in example 1. For fully undrawn facilities that allow for multiple interest rates, report the rate that was the most conservative (highest) as of the most recent origination or renewal date in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, Field 38 (Interest Rate), or FRY-14Q Schedule H.2, Field 27 (Interest Rate). Option A (3.5%) as described in example 2. For fully undrawn facilities that allow for multiple interest rates, continue to report the rate that was the most conservative (highest) as of the most recent origination or renewal date. If data are unavailable because the facility has been acquired more recently than the most recent origination or renewal date, report the rate that was most conservative as of the date of acquisition in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, Field 38 (Interest Rate), or FRY-14Q Schedule H.2, Field 27 (Interest Rate). Report facilities that are fully undrawn according to the instructions for fully undrawn facilities, rather than carrying over data from the prior quarters when the facility was drawn. (FRB Response: June 21, 2023) Q (Y140001522, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): (Data element Participation Flag (14Q Sch. H.1 Field #34 / Sch. H.2 Field #7)) When a reporting entity is an expanded reporter for the Shared National Credit (SNC) program, when should the Participation Flag be reported as '4' or '5'? Option A: only when a facility is reported on the SNC expanded report and meets the Shared National Credits definition ($100MM or more commitment and 3 or more federally supervised unaffiliated institutions). Option B: when a facility is reported on the SNC expanded report (syndicated or a Shared National Credits) Example: A syndication exists with two financial entities, Lead Agent & one participant. The syndication does not meet the Shared National Credits definition. As an expanded SNC reporter, the participant reports the syndicated credit. For the same syndicated credit reporting on 14Q H.1 H.2, how should Participation Flag (H.1 34 / H.2 7) be reported? Option A: '2. Yes, syndicate/participant in syndication but does not meet the definition of a Shared National Credit' Option B: '4. Yes, syndicate/participant in Shared National Credit' A: For facilities that meet the reportability requirements for the Shared National Credit (SNC) program and meet the definition of an SNC, per the SNC reporting instructions, report FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, Item 34 or FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.2, Item 7 (Participation Flag) with either option 4 or 5 as appropriate. With respect to the provided example, a facility that does not meet the definition of an SNC but is reported in the Shared National Program as a syndicated credit, should be reported on Schedule H.1, Item 34 or Schedule H.2, Item 7 (Participation Flag) with either option 2 or 3 as appropriate. (FRB Response: May 10, 2023) Q (Y140001615, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): "Upon the adoption of ASU 2022-02 for financial and regulatory reporting purposes, how should the requirement Troubled Debt Restructuring (Field 49) be reported on the FR-Y14Q Schedule H.2?" A: With the adoption of ASU 2022-02, FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2, Item 49 (Troubled Debt Restructuring) should be reported as option 1 (No) for all facilities. (FRB Response: May 10, 2023) Q (Y140001395, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): Question: How should the Firm report Field 12 - NOI at Origination and Field 13 - Value at Origination for the following scenarios: A property has been added to the collateral; A property was released from the collateral. These collateral changes are allowed under the credit agreements and don't involve renewal or modification of the agreements, and the facility is not a part of syndication. Should the values in these fields remain unchanged? Or should the firms update the values to reflect collateral additions or releases? Background: The instructions for FRY-14Q, Schedule H.2 Field 12 and 13 require firms to report the Net Operational Income ("NOI") and value of the subject property at origination (i.e., the date reported in Field 10). FAQ Y140000467 addressed scenario for syndicated loans and collateral releases. However, it is not clear if the guidance provided in FAQ is applicable to non-syndicated loans where collateral may be added or released. As per the FAQ, for syndicated loans, the Net Operating Income (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34) should be updated to report firm's share of the credit facility over time. For example, if the facility was originated in Q1 and 50% of it was syndicated in Q2, the FAQ asks to report values in Net Operating Income (Field 12) and Value at Origination (Field 13) that reflect its 50% participation in Q2. This FAQ also discusses collateral releases. However, with respect to the response cited below, it is not clear if "the same values" mean unchanged from the origination date or the same updated value as discussed in the second part of the FAQ: "2. In reference to the "Origination Fields" (Net Operating Income at Origination, Value at Origination, and Origination Amount) and the exchange rate feedback, we'd like to confirm how syndicated loans should be reported. 3. An additional question related to these (Origination) fields-for portfolio loans, how should paydowns and collateral releases be treated? (.) The Federal Reserve’s response to part 2 of the previous FAQ was: “For syndicated loans, the Net Operating Income (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34) should be reported based on the firm's share of the credit facility over time. In the example provided, in Q2 the firm would report values in Net Operating Income (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34) that reflect its 50% participation and update the value given in Participation Interest (Field 59).” The Federal Reserve’s response to part 3 of the previous FAQ included the following: “In Q2, report the same values for Net Operating Income (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34)… ." As a result, firms may be updating Fields 12 and 13 to reflect collateral releases due to the following: to avoid reporting collateral value of the asset that firms do not have collateral rights for anymore; collateral asset may no longer exists in the firm's credit system, so it maybe operationally challenging to maintain value at origination reporting. A: Firms should report Net Operating Income (NOI) at Origination (Field 12) and Value at Origination (Field 13) on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2, as of the time of the reported Origination Date (Field 10). Neither the NOI at Origination nor Value at Origination should be updated to reflect collateral additions or releases that occurred after the reported Origination Date. As noted in the response to FAQ Y140000467, in the event of collateral releases, firms should "report the same values for Net Operating Income (Field 12), Value at Origination (Field 13) and Origination Amount (Field 34)." (FRB Response: March 15, 2023) Q (Y140001271, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): Specific to the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate), the number of months to amortize the term of a loan facility is reported in Field 20 (Amortization). The Amortization field also defines the reporting of interest-only loans (“0”) as well as non-standard amortizations (“-1”). However, the instructions and subsequent FAQ guidance does not address multiple loans with various amortizations or payment terms that are aggregated and reports as a single facility for Schedule H.2. For these instances, how should firms report Field 20? For example, should firms align to other, similar reporting practice that are based on predominance within H.2? A: When reporting FR-Y14Q Schedule H.2 Field 20 (Amortization) for a single facility which contains multiple loans with varying amortization schedules, report Field 20 based on the predominant loan of the facility. (FRB Response: March 15, 2023) Q (Y140001566, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): FR Y-14Q Schedule H Field 94 “Prepayment Penalty Flag” requires reporting entities to indicate whether a credit facility has a prepayment penalty clause in effect. Certain corporate loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA) include credit agreement language describing a borrower’s obligation to pay the lender a prepayment fee on behalf of the SBA, which the lender would then pay forward to the SBA. For this type of prepayment penalty arrangement, the lender will receive no economic benefit from the prepayment penalty as they are acting as an agent to collect the fee on behalf of the SBA. For this type of loan, assuming the prepayment penalty has not yet expired, should the lender report “1. – Yes” or “3. No prepayment penalty clause” for Field 94? A: FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 94 (Prepayment Penalty Flag) requires firms to report whether a credit facility has a prepayment penalty clause in effect. For corporate facilities that obligate a borrower to pay the lender a prepayment fee—assuming the prepayment penalty has not yet expired—firms should indicate option “1 (Yes),” regardless of whether the lender would have to pay the received prepayment fee back to the Small Business Administration (SBA) and so would otherwise receive no economic benefit from the prepayment penalty. (FRB Response: March 15, 2023) Q (Y140001419, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): We have loan facilities structured as follows: There is a sponsor company who owns the shares of Company X (underlying). They would like a loan and they want to use those shares as collateral. Because they don't want any recourse to the parent (sponsor) company beyond those shares, they form a special SPV entity who's is the primary borrower/obligor on the loan. Those SPV's don't conduct any operations as their sole purpose is holding these shares which serve as collateral. Based on the Y9C classification these facilities are in scope for Wholesale CIL schedule and requires financials attributes. But, due to the special purpose these entities do not have quarterly financials. Can you please confirm based on the special condition of these facilities it is acceptable to report NULL values in fields 52 thru 82? A: Report the Obligor Financial Data Section (Fields 52 through Fields 82) consistent with the instructions for FR-Y14Q Schedule H.1 (referred to in the question as the Wholesale CIL schedule), which state, “If the legal entity used by underwriting as the primary source of repayment is different from the legal entity actually making the payment, report the Obligor Financial Data Section for the entity used by underwriting.” Therefore, in the example provided, if the legal entity used by underwriting as the primary source of repayment was the sponsor company, report the sponsor company’s data in the Obligor Financial Data section. If not, report the data for the legal entity making the payment. If data for this field is not available, leave the field blank and note the explanation in the comments of the edit check report. (FRB Response: March 15, 2023) Q (Y140001337, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): New instructions requiring the identification of fee only facilities includes the description as 'no interest is or will ever be collected'. If there are certain product types for which the facilities would be reportable on Schedule H, where the potential for interest to be collected exists but the probability is < 1%, should those be considered as 'fee only' facilities? A: Facilities that have the potential for interest to be collected should not be reported as fee-based facilities. If there exists a potential for interest to be collected, the facility does not meet the definition laid out in the FR Y-14Q instructions for interest rate (H.1 item 38, H.2 item 27) as a fee-based facility. The instructions state to report the option for "entirely fee based" when revenue is entirely fee based and no interest is or will ever be collected. (FRB Response: September 29, 2022) Q (Y140001506, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Wholesale Schedule H.1 and H.2 introduced reporting option "entirely fee based facility" in certain fields per FRB instruction changes effective September 2020. Question 1: If a Revolving Credit facility has only Letter of Credit ("LC") Issued contracts, what should be reported as Interest attributes? For example, considering Standby Letter of Credit ("SBLC") issuances only accrue LC fees, will this facility be reported as 'Fee only facility'? Question 2: Will there be the same or separate treatment while determining 'entirely fee based facilities' for Fixed Fees vs. Accruing Fees? Fixed Fees Example: A deal/facility is only created only to take in a fixed fee (arranger fee, underwriting fee etc.), and the firm is neither agent or lender to this deal; should we continue to report these facilities as 'entirely fee based facilities'. Accruing Fees Example: Same as in Question 1 related to SBLC. A: 1. If a revolving credit facility does not include the potential for interest to be collected and will only accrue fees, such as the standby letter of credit in the example, report the facility as instructed for an entirely fee based facility in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 37 (Interest Rate Variability), Field 38 (Interest Rate), Field 39 (Interest Rate Index), Field 40 (Interest Rate Spread), Field 41 (Interest Rate Ceiling), and Field 42 (Interest Rate Floor), and Schedule H.2 Field 26 (Interest Rate Variability), Field 27 (Interest Rate), Field 28 (Interest Rate Index), Field 29 (Interest Rate Spread), Field 30 (Interest Rate Ceiling), and Field 31 (Interest Rate Floor). 2. Facilities that are entirely fee based should be reported as such, regardless of whether the fees are fixed or accruing. (FRB Response: September 29, 2022) Q (Y140001527, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): Instructions for the field #37 - refer to the principle and/or interest past due. We would like to confirm if the Past Due field is only used to report the number of days amortization and/or interest payments are past due or would also be used to report a balloon balance that did not pay off at maturity? In other words if a loan has a balloon payment at the maturity, and it is not paid, do we show this loan as past due and include the # of days since the maturity. A: Per the instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 Field 37 (# Days Principal or Interest Past Due), any unpaid principal and/or interest payments that are 30 or more days past due on the reporting date should be indicated by reporting the longest number of days principal and/or interest payments are past due. Unpaid principal includes balloon balances that did not pay off at maturity. (FRB Response: September 20, 2022) Q (Y140001504, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): The firm has deals with an option for the borrower to choose a base rate (LIBOR, Fed Funds Rate etc.) plus a spread when the loan funded. Additionally, spreads and floor typically vary across each borrowing option. FRB instruction changes effective December 2020 requires firms to report the interest rate, i-variability, i-index, i-spread, i-ceiling, i-floor for the deals fully undrawn. This will require firm to do hypothetical calculations based on the different options and report the rate attributes which may not correctly reflect the values when the loan is drawn by the obligor. The firm would like to continue to report zero in these field for this specific type of deals. Please evaluate if this is permitted. A: When reporting Interest Rate and related data on the FR Y-14Q schedules H.1 and H.2, zero is no longer an acceptable value for reporting data related to fully undrawn facilities. Interest Rate and related data (Interest Rate Variability, Interest Rate Index, Interest Rate Spread, Interest Rate Ceiling, and Interest Rate Floor on schedules H.1 and H.2, and Frequency of Rate Reset on Schedule H.2) should be reported following the instructions in the appropriate field. For undrawn credit facilities that allow for multiple interest rates at the borrower's discretion, report the Interest Rate that was most conservative (highest) as of the most recent origination or renewal date. If the facility has been acquired more recently than the most recent origination or renewal date, report the rate that was most conservative as of the date of acquisition. When reporting Interest Rate Index for undrawn credit facilities that allow for multiple interest rates, the index reported should be the Interest Rate Index used to calculate Interest Rate. When reporting Interest Rate Variability for undrawn credit facilities that allow for either fixed or floating draws at the borrower's discretion, report "3" (Mixed). All other fields should be reported as if the facility was fully drawn and funded on the reporting date and following any field specific instructions. (FRB Response: September 20, 2022) Q (Y140001449, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): For "Last Valuation Date" (Field 43 on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2), a prior Q&A appears to require reporting of the date of the appraisal report for future dated appraisal values, such as "as-stabilized" or "as-completed" values associated with construction loans. Please confirm it is appropriate to use the effective date of the appraised value for facilities underwritten using an "as-is" basis. The Firm intends to use the effective date of the appraised value for facilities underwritten using an "as-is" basis until the Firm hears otherwise from the FRB. A: The instructions for Field 43 in FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 states, "Report the date of the most recent valuation provided in Current Value (Field 42)." Reporting firms should use the effective date of the appraisal (as defined in SR 10-16 Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines) for current ("as-is") market valuations. (FRB Response: September 20, 2022) Q (Y140001489, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): For fully undrawn credit facilities with multiple interest rate options, can the Firm report an interest rate in Field 38/Field 27 of Schedule H.1/H.2 calculated using the interest rate index reported in Field 39/Field 28 of Schedule H.1/H.2 that results in the most conservative (highest) rate as of the reporting date? Background: Effective December 31, 2020, the FRB started to collect interest rate information for undrawn exposures in Schedules H.1/H.2 of FR Y-14Q to more accurately estimate wholesale risk and potential credit availability in a stressed environment. The FRB originally proposed for banks to report the most conservative interest rate allowed per the terms of the credit agreement as if this facility were to be fully drawn on the reporting date (which is also considered a funding date). In response to the comments from the industry to the original proposed rule, the FRB revised the language regarding facilities with multiple interest rate options to specify that firms should report the most conservative (highest) rate as of the most recent origination or renewal date to reduce the unintended burden of recalculating the most conservative interest rate each quarter. However, the revised approach inadvertently created an additional burden related to sourcing historical data, which may be not available and the firms having to configure the systems to recalculate the rate as of the reporting date applying specified index. The revised approach in the Final Rule requires two steps in determining the interest rate for reporting: (1) Determination of Index: determine the index that produced the highest interest rate as of origination date (i.e., LIBOR), and (2) Recalculation of Interest Rate: using above determined index, recalculate the interest rate at each of the reporting date (i.e., LIBOR as of the reporting date + spread). The Firm does not have ability to determine the index based on the origination date for each unfunded facility. Therefore, the Firm is not calculating the interest rate using such determined index. Instead, the Firm determines the index based on the most conservative rate as of the reporting date and then calculate the rate based on this index. The Firm notes that this reporting approach is consistent with the Board's original proposal which was designed to more accurately estimate wholesale risk and potential credit availability in a stressed environment. The Firm believes it provides more relevant data for the purpose. This is also consistent with the reporting approach for other types of unfunded credit facilities (i.e., facilities with variable rates) and is aligned with the FRB's instructions for Field 38/Field 28.Interest Rate of Schedule H1/H2: "For fully undrawn commitments, report the interest rate that would apply per the terms of the credit agreement if the credit facility was funded and fully drawn on the reporting date." Additionally, an amendment to a credit agreement solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to an alternative pricing related to reference rate reform does not require reporting or updating a renewal date for the FR Y-14Q Schedule H. As a result, once the firms transition from LIBOR, reporting the index determined at origination may no longer provide meaningful data (e.g., if the LIBOR was the highest index as of origination date). If the firms are reporting the index based on the most conservative rate calculated as of the reporting date, LIBOR will automatically be replaced with the alternative index, once it becomes effective. The Firm will continue the current practice described above until instructed to report otherwise. A: Per the instructions, for Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 39 and Schedule H.2 Field 27 (Interest Rate), for undrawn credit facilities that allow for multiple interest rates, firms should report the rate that was most conservative (highest) as of the most recent origination or renewal date-not the reporting date. If the facility has been acquired more recently than the most recent origination or renewal date, report the rate that was most conservative as of the date of acquisition. Additionally, when reporting Interest Rate Index for undrawn credit facilities that allow for multiple interest rates, the Index reported should be the Interest Rate Index used to calculate Interest Rate. (FRB Response: September 20, 2022) Q (Y140001435, General): Topic: Clarification on reporting of net unamortized loan fees in Schedule H.1 Field 24 Committed Exposure Global, Field 25 Utilized Exposure Global; Schedule H.2 Field 5 Committed Exposure Global, Field 3 Outstanding Balance We are seeking further clarification on the reporting of net unamortized loan fees in FR Y-14Q Schedule H - Wholesale Risk. Effective with the March 31, 2020 reporting, the Schedule H instructions for the above Fields were updated to align with the FR Y-9C definition of loan and lease financing receivables recorded in Schedule HC-C (for Utilized and Outstanding) and any unused portion of the commitment recorded in Schedules HC-F, HC-G, and HC-L. For net unamortized loan fees, previous FAQ Y140001216 provided guidance that the loan population for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 and H.2 does not include balances reported on FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C, item 11, "Less: Any unearned income on loans reflected in items 1-9 above". However, the FR Y-9C instructions also allow for net unamortized loan fees and unearned income be deducted from the related loan balances, where possible. If these amounts are reported in Schedule H.1 and H.2, Schedule H Committed Exposure will not agree to the amount that the obligor is contractually allowed to borrow according to the credit agreement, and the Utilized Exposure will not agree to the amount that the obligor has drawn, which has not been repaid. For example, if there is a $500MM loan commitment (consisting of $300MM utilized and $200MM unused commitment) and $10MM unamortized loan fee, Field 24 Committed Exposure Global would report $490MM ($300MM loan receivable less $10MM unamortized loan fee plus $200MM unused commitment) and Field 25 Utilized Exposure Global would reflect $290MM ($300MM loan receivable less $10MM unamortized loan fee) on Schedule H.1. $490MM reported in Field 24 Committed Exposure Global will not agree with the $500MM loan commitment that the obligor is contractually allowed to borrow according to the credit agreement. $290MM reported in Field 25 Utilized Exposure Global will also not agree with the $300MM, which the obligor has drawn. We request clarification on whether the Schedule H Committed Exposure and Utilized Exposure should include the net unamortized loan fees that are reflected in HC-C item 1 through 9. A: The amounts reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, Field 24 (Committed Exposure Global) and Field 25 (Utilized Exposure Global), and Schedule H.2, Field 3 (Outstanding Balance) and Field 5 (Committed Exposure Global) should be consistent with the balances that are reported on the FR Y-9C, per the instructions. In this example, if a $300MM utilized loan amount is reported net of a $10MM unamortized loan fee on the FR Y-9C, Field 25 (Utilized Exposure Global) should be reported as $290MM and Field 24 (Committed Exposure Global) should be reported as $490MM. (FRB Response: September 20, 2022) Q (Y140001049, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Instructions for the Field 95 - Entity Industry Code state that if the entity identified in Field 49 - Entity Internal ID is an individual, the industry code should be consistent with the industry in which the commercial purpose of the loan operates. For the Non-Purpose Securities Based Lending (SBL) portfolio the primary source of repayment is the underlying eligible collateral that is pledged by the Obligor to the Lender. Therefore, the industry of the counter-party is not a material factor in the assessment of lender's credit risk in SBL transactions. From a risk management perspective, the credit risk of SBL transactions is mitigated through lender's first priority security interest in the eligible collateral. According to a previously published FAQ, for non-purpose margin lending to individuals report null in field #8 and #9. Question - for non-purpose security based lending transactions to any counter-party would it be appropriate to report null in fields 8 and 9 given that the primary source of repayment is the underlying eligible collateral that is pledged by the borrower to the Lender and therefore, the industry of the borrower is not a material factor in the assessment of the credit risk on the transaction? A: On FR Y-14Q schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data Schedule), for the example provided for non-purpose, security-based lending, report field 8 (Industry Code) and field 9 (Industry Code Type) based on the primary business activity of the obligor. (FRB Response: August 24, 2022) Q (Y140001473, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Our bank maintains partner capital loan programs with legal and accounting firms, whereby we originate loans to individual partners at those firms for the purpose of purchasing equity capital in their respective firm. Here are some key aspects of these partner capital loans: The borrower is the individual partner, the primary source of repayment is personal cash flows of the individual partners, and there is no recourse to the firm. We can reject a loan to an individual partner under these programs based on financial analysis of the individual borrower. A summary of program terms is provided to the Firm and there are individual credit agreements in place with each partner. Credit underwriting involves financial analysis of both the individual partner (including FICO score, debt to income ratios, capital account levels) and the legal/accounting firm (including commercial grading of the firm). While the strength of the firm is considered at program origination and during renewal periods, the main underwriting consideration is the ability of an individual borrower to repay. There is a financial analysis performed on each individual borrower upon loan application and periodic credit monitoring, which includes analysis of borrower FICOs, debt to income ratios, net worth, and capital account levels. These loans are reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C Line 4 'Commercial and Industrial' as the instructions include "Loans for commercial, industrial, and professional purposes to. practitioners of law, medicine, and public accounting." As described above, the credit underwriting process has characteristics that align with the report instructions description of "scored" or "delinquency managed" (Schedule A.9) as well as "commercially graded" (Schedule H). In addition to the report instructions, a prior Q&A addressed a question about loans that to not clearly fit the definitions of "scored" or "graded" with the following response: "As indicated in the instructions for the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule, the main differentiating factor between corporate and small business loans is how the BHC evaluates the creditworthiness of the borrower. If the main driver of the credit underwriting decision is the credit quality of the business entity, then the credit facility should be reported on the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule provided that the committed balance is equal to or greater than $1 million." In reviewing the credit underwriting process for these partner capital loans, we determined that the main driver of the credit underwriting decision is the credit quality of the individual borrower rather than the firm. As a result, our view is that these loans are most appropriately reported in Schedule A.9 rather than Schedule H. Does this reporting align with FRB expectations for reporting partner capital loans? A: For purposes of the FR Y-14Q, the differentiating factor between corporate and small business loans is how the creditworthiness of the borrower is evaluated. In the example provided, the main consideration is the credit quality of the individual borrower. Therefore, the loans described in the question should be reported on Schedule A.9 (U.S. Small Business), rather than Schedule H (Wholesale). (FRB Response: June 22, 2022) Q (Y140001403, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): With respect to the reporting of Utilized Exposure on the Wholesale Loans Corporate Loans Schedule H.1, the instructions indicate that all loans and lease finance receivables should be reported consistently with the FR Y-9C instructions. That would require the Utilized Exposure to be reported inclusive of Unamortized Fees and Deferred Fees. Based on the clarification provided on FAQ Y140001316, the expectation is to report the Committed Exposure as the sum of the loans and lease financing receivables recorded in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C and any unused portion of the commitment recorded in Schedules HC-F, HC-G, and HC-L. This FAQ response confirmed that the Unamortized Fees and Deferred Fees reported in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C should be included in both the Utilized Exposure and the Committed Exposure in the Wholesale Loans facilities reported in the FR Y-14Q. In instances where there are Unamortized Fees or Deferred Fees on an Unutilized facility, how are firms expected to report? Example: The total loan commitment is $100MM. The record is undrawn ($0) as of period end. The customer has an unamortized fee of -$2MM as of the reporting date. How should this be reported? Should it be reflected as: Committed Exposure Global $98MM Utilized Exposure Global -$2MM Including Unamortized Fees and Deferred Fees would result in negative balances in the Utilized Exposure Global field when records are undrawn. Is that the expectation where we would then have to explain the edit check that is triggered? Please advise. A: The instructions for FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, field 25 (Utilized Exposure Global) state to report zero for fully undrawn commitments. The instructions for field 24 (Committed Exposure Global) state to report the total commitment amount as the sum of loan and lease financing receivables recorded in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C (reported in field 25) and any unused portion of the commitment recorded in Schedules HC-F, HC-G, and HC-L. In this example of an undrawn commitment, field 25 (Utilized Exposure Global) should be reported as $0 and field 24 (Committed Exposure Global) should be reported as $100MM, the sum of the Utilized Exposure Global reported in field 25 ($0) and the $100MM in unused commitment. (FRB Response: September 22, 2021) Q (Y140001267, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): How should firms report "Security Type" in Field 36 on Schedule H.1 for facilities within the scope of the proposed new Credit Facility Purpose "Capital Call Subscription", particularly to real estate funds? A: The instructions for the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 36 (Security Type) are not dependent on the instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 Field 22 (Credit Facility Purpose). Security Type should be reported consistent with the instructions. Security Type is determined by the collateral that secures the facility. If security is provided by collateral other than or in addition to Real Estate, indicate the predominant security type. If a credit facility has loans secured by different asset types, aggregate the committed balance by type of asset in the collateral pool and report the security type associated with the predominant aggregate value. Report the integer code corresponding to the security type descriptions in the instructions. Option 4 (Blanket Lien) should only be used for loans which legally give the lender a lien of equal seniority across all unencumbered assets of the borrower. If the facility is secured but it is not a lien of equal seniority across all unencumbered assets of the borrower (option 4), and the collateral cannot be categorized by options 0, 1, 2, or 3, then report option 5 "Other." If the facility is not secured by collateral, report option 6 "Unsecured." For fronting exposures, report the integer code that is applicable for the primary credit facility. (FRB Response: August 25, 2021)) Q (Y140001376, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): The instructions for Schedule H.2, Field 20 – Amortization indicate that loans with a monthly amortization schedule should report the original amortization term of the loan in months from the date given in Field 10 at the rate implied by the current payment disregarding any balloon payment. It is unclear what is meant by "the rate implied by the current payment disregarding any balloon payment" when the instructions also refer to reporting the original amortization term of the loan. For instance, should a $10 million, 2% fixed interest rate loan whose monthly instalment is $200,000 for 23 months with a balloon payment of $5,514,630 in the 24th month be reported as "23 months" or are we expected to determine the number of months that it would take the loan to be fully repaid if the current instalment of $200,000 were to be paid until the loan is completely paid off (without any balloon payment)? In this example, if the balloon payment were to be disregarded, the number of months implied by the current payment of $200,000 is just over 52 months. Should we report 23 months or 52 months? A: Per the instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2, Field 20 (Amortization) for loans with a monthly amortization schedule, report the original amortization term of the loan in months from the date given in Field 10 (Origination Date) at the rate implied by the current payment disregarding any balloon payment. For the purposes of Field 20, the phrase "disregarding any balloon payment" means to calculate amortization based on the full loan balance and not subtract the expected balloon payment from the loan balance. The amount reported should be the number of months it would take to fully repay the loan at the current payment, not including the balloon payment at maturity. This may result in a longer amortization period than the term of the loan, which is acceptable in this circumstance. In the example provided, 52 months would be reported in Field 20 since the balloon payment at maturity would be disregarded when calculating the amortization period. (FRB Response: July 14, 2021) Q (Y140001394, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Does an amendment to a financial contract solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to the alternate reference rate (e.g., SOFR (Secured Overnight Financing Rate)) due to reference rate reform meet the definition of a re-pricing event? More specifically, should any of the following scenarios be considered as a re-pricing event? 1. An amendment of a contract as a result of direct negotiation with counterparties solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to an alternate reference rate. 2. An amendment with fallback language where the fallback language is triggered solely because of the transitioning from LIBOR to an alternate reference rate. 3. An amendment with fallback language because of the transitioning from LIBOR to an alternate reference rate and the fall back language is not triggered yet but could be triggered in future solely. Background: The Firm is in the process of reviewing and amending its various financial contracts due to the reference rate reform. Amendments of financial contracts include modifying fallback language(note 1) of the contracts as necessary. Various regulatory reports, such as FR Y-9C, FFIEC 031, FR Y-11, FR Y-9LP and FR Y-14Q, have specific reporting items related to a repricing event, such as maturity and repricing data for securities and loans, etc. The current instructions for these reports do not specifically indicate whether the amendment of a contract due to reference rate reform constitutes a repricing event. Accordingly, the Firm is seeking clarification. FASB has issued guidance allowing entities to elect to treat all such reference rate modifications directly related to reference rate reform as minor, or not substantially different from the original terms, thus providing relief from assessment and accounting for as a debt extinguishment. Therefore, the Firm has taken the position in concert with the FASB guidance that an amendment to a financial contract solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to alternate reference rate does not meet the definition of a re-pricing event, including the three scenarios described above. Accordingly, the Firm will not report this type of amendment to a credit agreement as a repricing event unless instructed otherwise. Note 1: The Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) defines fallback language as "contractual provisions that specify the trigger events for a transition to a replacement rate, the replacement rate, and the spread adjustment to align the replacement rate with the benchmark being replaced." A: An amendment to a credit agreement solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to an alternate pricing related to reference rate reform does not require reporting or updating a renewal date (Schedule H.1 (Corporate), item 91; Schedule H.2 (CRE), item 54 ("Renewal Date")) for the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H (Wholesale). More specifically, none of the referenced scenarios would be considered a re-pricing event. (FRB Response: April 28, 2021) Q (Y140001346, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: Does an amendment to a credit agreement solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to alternate pricing (reference rate reform), e.g., SOFR (Secured Overnight Financing Rate), meet the definition of a re-pricing event, and thus requires reporting a renewal date for FR Y-14Q Schedule H? Background: FR Y-14Q instructions for Schedule H.1 field 91 and Schedule H.2 field 54, Renewal Date indicate that if the credit facility has been renewed per the terms of the original loan agreement, re-priced, or has a change in the maturity date such that the Origination Date did not change, the date on which the most recent renewal notification became effective should be reported. FASB has issued guidance allowing entities to elect to treat all such reference rate modifications directly related to reference rate reform as minor or not substantially different from the original terms, thus providing relief from assessment and accounting for as a debt extinguishment. The Firm has taken the position in concert with the FASB guidance stated above, that an amendment to a credit agreement solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to alternate pricing (reference rate reform) does not meet the definition of a re-pricing event for FR Y-14Q Schedule H reporting. Accordingly, the Firm will not report a renewal date for such amendment to a credit agreement until the Firm receives clarification from you. A: An amendment to a credit agreement solely for the purpose of transitioning from LIBOR to an alternate pricing related to reference rate reform does not require reporting or updating a renewal date (Schedule H.1 (Corporate), field 91 and Schedule H.2 (CRE), field 54) for the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H (Wholesale). (FRB Response: April 14, 2021) Q (Y140001310, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): As it relates to the reported value for Schedule H.2, field 5, Committed Exposure Global, when the difference between the actual credit facility amount and the committed exposure is unconditionally cancellable, should the value reported be at the credit facility or the actual commitment level? Background: The instructions to FR Y-14Q, H.2, field 5, Committed Exposure Global, indicate that the amount reported shall include the total commitment amount approved and offered to the borrower. In Homebuilder Finance, builder lines of credit and borrowing base credit facilities are guidance in nature and include unconditionally cancellable contract language. Therefore, the exposure is only legally committed if the Lender accepts the loan request along with the collateral proposed and perfects a security interest in such collateral. As a result, this creates multiple layers of exposure under a single credit facility; 1) the net book balance (the drawn amount associated with existing collateral), 2) the unused, but committed exposure (the unused amount associated with existing collateral), 3) the unused, and legally uncommitted exposure (the unused amount that is unconditionally cancellable and not associated with any existing collateral), and 4) the total amount of the credit facility (the aggregate of 1, 2, and 3). The firm currently reports the Committed Global Exposure as the credit facility amount (#4), but upon review believes it is most appropriate to report the credit facility amount (#4) less the unused, and legally uncommitted exposure (#3). The latter exposure (#3) is unconditionally cancellable and not associated with any existing collateral. By reporting the credit facility amount (#4) and only the existing collateral, not only are the firm's legal commitments overstated, but the implied loan to value (LTV) will almost always be overstated as well. A: The FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) instructions define loans and leases as "loan commitments or credit facilities to an obligor as defined in the credit agreement." Further, the instructions specify that the population of loans should be reported at the credit facility level. The schedule instructions define a credit facility as "a credit extension to a legal entity under a specific credit agreement." The firm should report the loan commitment as defined in the specific credit agreement. Per the instructions, if the unconditionally cancelable exposure has been approved and offered, then the firm should include it in the total commitment amount. (FRB Response: January 27, 2021) Q (Y140001316, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): Can you please clarify what the expectation is with reporting the Committed Exposure Global? Example A: The total loan commitment (i.e. limit) is $100MM. The customer draws $50MM, leaving $50MM in unused commitment. On this loan, if the customer has unamortized loan origination costs of $2MM as of the reporting date, how should we report? Committed Exposure Global $100MM Outstanding Balance $52MM -OR- Committed Exposure Global $102MM Outstanding Balance $52MM (Option 2 would mathematically work when trying to calculate the Unused Commitment, however, it would create a reconciliation break to the actual limit and would not agree to the loan documentation). Example B: The total loan commitment (i.e. limit) $100MM. The customer draws $50MM, leaving $50MM in unused commitment. On this loan, if the customer has an unamortized fee of -$1MM (credit to the loan balance) as of the reporting date, how should this be reported? Committed Exposure Global $100MM Outstanding Balance $49MM -OR- Committed Exposure Global $99MM Outstanding Balance $49MM We are concerned with reflecting the Committed Exposure in the 2nd options provided above as it would misrepresent the actual exposure. Please advise. A: The instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2, Field 3, Outstanding Balance, state to report all loan and lease financing receivables consistent with the FR Y-9C instructions. The instructions for Field 5, Committed Exposure Global, state to report the total commitment amount as the sum of loan and lease financing receivables recorded in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C (reported in Field 3, Outstanding Balance) and any unused portion of the commitment recorded in Schedules HC-F, HC-G, and HC-L. Therefore, in example A provided, the Committed Exposure Global reported should be $102MM, as it is the sum of the Outstanding Balance ($52MM) and the $50MM in unused commitment. In example B provided, the Committed Exposure Global reported should be $99MM, the sum of the Outstanding Balance reported in Field 3 ($49MM) and the $50MM in unused commitment. (FRB Response: December 23, 2020) Q (Y140001108, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): For Schedule H2, Field 20 (Amortization) Interpretation of the below option, if a loan is booked with the below payment option, should it be reported as -1 (non-standard amortization) or the actual term should be reported? Payment Options Loan could have periodic Interest and Principal Schedules which may or may not fall on same date A: Per the FR-Y14Q H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) instructions, Amortization (Field 20) is non-standard if the payment schedule is not based on a preset amortization schedule of equal monthly payments. If the loan has an option to have periodic interest and principal schedules, which may or may not fall on the same date, that situation would be considered non-standard amortization. If the loan has periodic interest and principal schedules, which may or may not fall on the same date, and the schedules are not based on equal monthly payments, that situation would be considered non-standard amortization. If the loan has periodic interest and principal schedules, which may or may not fall on the same date, if the period is monthly, and the schedules are based on equal monthly total or principal payments, the amortization term should be reported as standard per the instructions. (FRB Response: November 25, 2020) Q (Y140000887, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): I noticed that on page 242 of the redline FR Y-14Q instructions in the schedule H2 section that a comment was added to Field #7 (Participation Flag) to state, "For fronting exposures, report option 1 ‘No'. Can you please provide clarification regarding the reporting of fronting exposures on the H2 schedule? Under Section B (Reporting Specifications) on page 187 for schedule H1, the instructions specifically state the following: "The loan population also includes credit facilities which include a fronting exposure. Fronting exposures are those that represent a BHC's or IHC's exposure to fund certain obligations (e.g., swingline or letters of credit) on behalf of other participant lenders. For such exposures, BHCs and IHCs should indicate Option 18 in Field 20 ‘Credit Facility Type' and report their pro-rata portion of the stated commitment amount as one facility to the borrower and the fronting obligations as separate credit facilities to each of the lending group participants." This statement is missing from the schedule H2 instructions, thus we need further guidance. A: For Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate), report the pro-rata portion of the stated commitment amount as one facility to the borrower and the fronting obligations as separate credit facilities to each of the lending group participants. (FRB Response: November 25, 2020) Q (Y140000901, General): For 14Q Schedule H submission (1Q2018), we request additional clarity on how to apply FR Y-9C Schedule HC-L definition of Commitments to Commit. Definition as follows: (6) Commitments to issue a commitment at some point in the future, where the holding company has extended terms, the borrower has accepted the offered terms, and the extension and acceptance of the terms: (a) Are in writing, regardless of whether they are legally binding on the holding company and the borrower, or (b) If not in writing, are legally binding on the holding company and the borrower, 1 even though the related loan agreement has not yet been signed and even if the commitment to issue a commitment is revocable, provided any revocation has not yet taken effect as of the report date. 1. For example, either the extension or the acceptance of the terms or both are verbal, but they are nonetheless legally binding on both parties under applicable law. For facilities with legally binding terms in the syndicated pipeline, would we consider any records with Syndicated Loan Flag of 1 (single-signed) or 2 (dual-signed) as Commitments to Commit? A: For purposes of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 (Corporate), Field 20, Item 19 (Maturity Date) "commitment to commit" includes all facilities that meet the FR Y-9C definition of commitment to commit. In general, facilities with legally binding terms in the syndicated pipeline qualify as commitments to commit under the FR Y-9C definition; however, the determination of whether a facility qualifies as a commitment to commit under the FR Y-9C definition is ultimately a case-by-case determination. (FRB Response: November 25, 2020) Q (Y140001215, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): The Firm will extend SBA Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans under the CARES Act. Unlike regular SBA loans, these loans are fully guaranteed by SBA and will not go through a credit underwriting process as per the PPP program requirements. Therefore, these loans will NOT be graded/rated and credit quality of the business entity will not be evaluated. Additionally, the PPP loans will not be scored or delinquency managed. Where should the Non Rated/Non Graded and Non scored/non delinquency managed corporate loans be reported? A prior FAQ stated that "non-rated/non-graded and non-scored corporate loans" should be reported in FR Y14Q Schedule H (if above $1M) and Schedule K (if it's below $1M) if the main driver of the credit underwriting decision is the credit quality of the business entity. PPP loans should not be in Schedule A.9 because they are non-scored and not delinquency managed. However, this FAQ does not address non-rated/non-graded and non-scored corporate loans that are NOT subject to credit underwriting and credit quality of the business entity is not considered in loan origination. The Firm views these loans as non-reportable on Schedule H, as they should not be subject to stress testing and several fields required for Schedule H are not applicable to this portfolio of loans. Rather, the loans are more appropriate to be reported on Schedule K as domestic small business loans in Line item 9.b under Column A, Outstanding balance of wholesale loans in immaterial portfolios, regardless of the size of the loans or whether individual facilities within this portfolio exceed the reporting materiality for Schedule H of FR Y-14Q. A: For 2020:Q2 FR Y-14Q reporting, do not include Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans in Schedule A.9 US Small Business, Schedule H Wholesale Risk, or Schedule M Balances. For 2020:Q2, please only report PPP loan balances within Schedule K Supplemental. Beginning in 2020:Q3, per the updated FR Y-14Q instructions, the $ Under federally guaranteed programs summary variable (B.13) has been added to FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 US Small Business to capture small business PPP loans. In 2020:Q3 (and beyond), report PPP loan balances within Schedule M Balances (beginning in 2020:Q3, line item 2.b.(1), Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans has been added to Schedule M Balances). (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001216, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): We are seeking clarification on reporting of deferred fees and costs in FR Y-14Q Schedule H - Wholesale Risk. The final Federal Register issued on December 18, 2019, stated that Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data) item 25 "Utilized Exposure Global" and Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate) item 3 "Outstanding Balance" were revised to align reporting with the FR Y-9C definition of loan and lease financing receivables and that the exposure amounts should be reported, net of deferred fees and costs in Schedule H.1 item 25 and Schedule H.2 item 3. While specific loan categories are reported net of both unearned income and net unamortized loan fees in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C to the extent possible, certain unearned income and net unamortized loan fees are reported in Schedule HC-C line 11 "Less: Any unearned income on loans reflected in items 1-9 above". The report instruction to Schedules H.1 and H.2 list the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C categories that are considered corporate loans, which should be used as a guide in determining the population of corporate loans and leases. Schedule HC-C line 11 is not included in the instructions. We would appreciate your guidance as to whether the balance reported in Schedule HC-C line 11 should be included in the balances reported in FR Y-14Q Schedules H.1 and H.2 to the extent that they represent corporate loans and commercial real estate loans. A: The loan population for FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 and H.2 does not include balances reported on FR Y-9C, schedule HC-C, item 11. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001255, General): Facilities which have net deferred costs may cause the facility balance to exceed the committed amount. For example, for credit facilities such as term loans with deferred costs in excess of deferred fees and no unfunded amount, adding the net deferred costs to the utilized balance causes the reported utilized balance to exceed the committed amount. For such facilities where balance exceeds commitment, should we explain the resulting edit check failure via Respondent Edit Report? A: The instructions for FR Y-14Q schedule H.1 Field 24, Committed Exposure Global, state to report the total commitment amount as the sum of loan and lease financing receivables recorded in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C (reported in Field 25, Utilized Exposure Global) and any unused portion of the commitment recorded in Schedules HC-F, HC-G, and HC-L. The instructions for schedule H.1 Field 25, Utilized Exposure Global, state to report all loan and lease financing receivables consistent with the FR Y-9C instructions. Therefore, as the commitment (Committed Exposure Global) is a sum of the balance (Utilized Exposure Global) and any unused portion of the commitment, the balance should not exceed the commitment. The same logic is used for FR Y-14Q schedule H.2. The instructions for Field 3, Outstanding Balance, state to report all loan and lease financing receivables consistent with the FR Y-9C instructions. The instructions for Field 5, Committed Exposure Global, state to report the total commitment amount as the sum of loan and lease financing receivables recorded in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C (reported in Field 3, Outstanding Balance) and any unused portion of the commitment recorded in Schedules HC-F, HC-G, and HC-L. Since the commitment (Committed Exposure Global) is the sum of the balance (Outstanding Balance) and any unused portion of the commitment, the balance should not exceed the commitment. Therefore, in the example provided, when reporting the committed amount, the utilized balance reported in H.1 Field 25 or H.2 Field 3 would be added to the unfunded amount ($0 in the example). This means, in the example provided, that the committed amount would equal the utilized amount. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001237, General): Given the recent instruction changes and consideration for deferred fees and costs, can the Federal Reserve please expand on the reporting instructions and scoping for Schedule H? Specifically, Schedule H instructions state that the loan population is limited to corporate loans and leases with a "committed balance greater than or equal to $1 million" without further defining the term ‘committed balance'. We note that the schedule include the attribute ‘committed exposure global'. Can you confirm that a reporting institution should base the scoping determination (i.e., initial schedule inclusion and subsequent disposition) exclusively off the "committed exposure global" field for Schedule H.1 and H.2 (i.e., Field 24 and Field 5, respectively)? For example, in the scenario whereby we originate a C&I term loan for $1 million and have a deferred fee of $1, Line 24 would reflect $999,999. Should this scenario be reported in Schedule H or Schedule K? A: For the purposes of Schedules H.1 and H.2, the $1 million reporting threshold should be determined based on the value in the Committed Exposure Global fields (Field 24 in H.1 and Field 5 in H.2). Credit facilities that that no longer meet the $1 million threshold should be reported in the quarter they fall below the threshold following the instructions on reporting of disposed loans. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001298, General): How should disposed loans be reported for firms that will be reporting monthly? A: The addition of the monthly submissions should not change how disposed loans are reported quarterly. Disposed loans should be reported in quarter-end submissions only. That would be the submissions with as-of dates of March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. The submissions for those dates should include any loans or leases that were disposed of during the reporting period. For the purposes of determining whether or not to include a disposed loan, the reporting period referred to here is the quarter of the submission. Monthly submissions should only include loans that are considered active per the definition of H.1 Field 98 (Disposition Flag) or H.2 Field 61 (Disposition Flag). (FRB Response: August 12, 2020) Q (Y140001064, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): When the firm reports credit facilities as single-signed in Field 100, it is generally too early to determine if it is part of the Shared National Credit Program. In these cases, should option 1 ("No") be reported in Field 34 (Participation Flag)? A: Commitments in the syndicated pipeline should be reported in the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedules and all data fields are required to be reported according to the instructions. In the example provided, do not report option 1 ("No") for Field 34 (Participation Flag). Rather, note the explanation for Field 34 (Participation Flag) in the edit check report and provide a remediation plan for issue resolution. (FRB Response: April 15, 2020) Q (Y140000912, General): In accordance with the verbal instructions given by the FRB in a meeting held in 2015, the firm has reported all commitments to commit as Held for Investments (HFI), including those commitments that would eventually be classified as Held for Sale (HFS) once funded, on Schedules H.1 and H.2 of FR Y-14Q. Indicator #3 (NA) was thus selected for the LOCOM flag field 86 (CIL) and field 52 (CRE). The firm plans to continue its practice of reporting all commitments to commit as HFI, including those loans that will be classified as HFS once funded. Please confirm if the firm's practice is appropriate or not. A: When a firm holds a loan or lease financing receivable (including a commitment to commit) which the firm has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff, the commitment should be classified as held for investment (HFI) on Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data Schedule) and H.2 (Commercial Real Estate Schedule) of the FR Y-14Q. For a loan or lease financing receivable (including a commitment to commit) which the firm has the intent to sell, the commitment should be classified as held for sale (HFS) on the aforementioned schedules of the FR Y-14Q. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000938, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): For non-recourse lending commitments that are reported as part of the multi-seller commercial paper conduit structured transactions, where repayment comes from the underlying pool of assets in the structure, is it appropriate to use the amortization period of the underlying assets to determine the date to be reported as maturity date for purposes of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, field 19, Maturity date? Background: In multi-seller commercial paper conduit structured transactions the firm provides financing to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity (SPE) against a structured pool of assets that the client has sold to the SPE. The repayment of the financing will solely come from the cash flows of the assets in the SPE. The exposure is represented as a lending commitment and the used portion of the commitment as a loan on the consolidated balance sheets of the BHC. Although repayment is not directly tied to the client, these exposures are risk managed as graded credit exposure and are included on the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H1. When funded, the loan balances are reported on the FR Y-9C in line 9.b.2, All other. The arrangements typically include credit enhancing over-collateralization. As the transactions are structured to be bankruptcy remote, i.e., not tied to the client's credit quality and the sold assets are out of the reach of other creditors in the event of a client's bankruptcy, there will be a difference in the fit for purpose data for certain report cells with the fit for purpose data for more traditional credit products. The legal agreements documenting these arrangements do not always include a maturity date, as the arrangement is not tied to a defined period of financing available to a borrower, but rather the life of the asset pool backing the arrangements. For those agreements that do include some form of legal "maturity date," these dates are generally fall back dates well beyond the point in time at which the scheduled cash flows from the underlying assets will fully repay the loan. Further, as there is no recourse to the client as a traditional borrower, any maturity date that might be included in select agreements would not generally have the meaning of the last date upon which the funds must be repaid, because such a date cannot be enforced against the borrower. Accordingly, the firm determines maturity date by calculating an amortization period (i.e., tenor) of the underlying assets (auto loans, for example) for legal agreements that do not contain a maturity date and agreements that have a fall back date well beyond the point in time at which the scheduled cash flows from the underlying assets will fully re-pay the loan. This amortization period is based on scheduled payments on the underlying assets that will be used to repay the loan and incorporates expected defaults and prepayments. This method represents the firm's best estimate of the last day at which the credit facility will be repaid. We would like to confirm that this method to determine the maturity date for this type of non-recourse lending facilities is appropriate. A: Report Field 19 (Maturity Date) on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data Schedule) as specified in the credit agreement. If the credit agreement is open ended and/or does not specify a maturity date, report "9999-01-01" for Field 19. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000939, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Factored Accounts Receivable Maturity Date: Factored accounts receivable are trade accounts receivable purchased from another company (debtor). Individual trade accounts receivable (invoice) purchased that meet the definition of a "sale" as pursuant to ASC 860 are reported as loans in regulatory reports and the individual invoice is considered a unit of account (obligation level). The FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 requires reporting at the credit facility level, but factored accounts receivable do not have a facility. Instead there's a purchase agreement with a client to acquire invoices at various periods. The volume of the factored accounts receivable/invoices per debtor (invoice holder) can be large since each invoice can have different maturity dates. Should the maturity date for these factored accounts receivable/invoices be reported based on 1) the maturity of individual invoices or 2) the average maturity of the debtor's aggregate invoices or 3) maturity of the purchase agreement with a client? A: In the example provided, there is no credit facility between the lender (the financial institution that purchases the receivable) and the company that sells the receivable. Rather, each factored account receivable (at the invoice level) that meets the definition of a "sale" under ASC Topic 860 serves as a unit of account. Consequently, individual trade accounts receivable should not be aggregated for reporting on the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loan Data Schedule): "The population of loans should be reported at the credit facility level. For purposes of this collection, a credit facility is defined as a credit extension to a legal entity under a specific credit agreement." Further, individual trade accounts receivable should be reported on the Corporate schedule only if they meet the reporting requirements specified in the instructions, including, but not limited to, the following requirements: The committed balance of the credit facility is greater than or equal to $1 million; and When evaluating the creditworthiness of the borrower, corporate loans are "graded" or "rated" using the consolidated holding company's commercial credit rating system, as it is defined in the consolidated holding company's normal course of business. Factored accounts receivable that are "scored" or "delinquency managed," for which commercial internal risk ratings are not used or that use a different scale than other corporate loans, should not be reported on the Corporate schedule. Small business loans are reportable on the FR Y-14Q Schedule A.9 (U.S. Small Business Schedule) and A.8 (International Small Business Schedule). If a factored account receivable meets the reporting requirements of the Corporate schedule, Field 19 (Maturity Date) should reflect the maturity date of the individual trade account receivable (invoice). (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000948, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Should a new loan facility created through the amendment of an existing credit agreement, where certain terms such as maturity date or pricing are not amended AND restated, be reported with the same origination date as the original loan agreement for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1 – Wholesale risk – corporate loan data, field no. 18, Origination date, and Schedule H.2 – Wholesale risk – Commercial Real Estate field no. 10, Origination date? Background: Instructions to FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 – Wholesale risk – corporate loan data Field no. 18, Origination date and Schedule H.2. – Wholesale risk – Commercial Real Estate, field no. 10, Origination date, include the following guidance on "origination date": "Report the origination date. The origination date is the contractual date of the credit agreement. (In most cases, this is the date the commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment). If there has been a major modification to the loan such that the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement, use the revised contractual date of the credit agreement as the origination date. The following independent examples would generally not result in a change in the contractual date of the loan, and thus would not be considered major modifications: (1) extension options at the sole discretion of the borrower; (2) covenants; (3) waivers; (4) change in the maturity date; (5) re- pricing; or (6) periodic credit reviews. Additionally, exclude all renewals which meet the definition in the "Renewal Date" Field 91." Example: An existing credit agreement with origination date of 12/15/2013 was amended on 6/30/2018 to allow for the creation of a new additional credit facility. There has been no change to maturity date or pricing from the original agreement so we are currently reporting the new credit facility under the origination date of the original loan agreement 12/15/2013. We will continue our current FR Y-14Q schedule H reporting practice, as outlined above, until we receive clarification from you. A: Per the instructions for Field 18 (Origination Date) on the FR Y-14Q H.1 (Corporate Data Schedule) and Field 10 on the FR Y-14Q H.2 (Commercial Real Estate Schedule): "The origination date is the contractual date of the credit agreement. (In most cases, this is the date the commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment). If there has been a major modification to the loan such that the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement, use the revised contractual date of the credit agreement as the origination date. The following independent examples would generally not result in a change in the contractual date of the loan, and thus would not be considered major modifications: (1) extension options at the sole discretion of the borrower; (2) covenants; (3) waivers; (4) change in the maturity date; (5) re-pricing; or (6) periodic credit reviews." In the example, the existing credit agreement is amended to create a new facility. Report Field 18 or Field 10 for the new credit facility as "2018-06-30." The origination dates of any pre-existing credit facilities governed by the same credit agreement remain unchanged unless a major modification also affects these facilities. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000823, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): Additional clarification is requested for the H2 CRE Amortization (Field 20) in reference to the FRB response to a prior Q&A dated July 3, 2017. Amortization example: $10,000M Facility, 2-year loan Actual Variable Rate: Libor + 3% (3.65%) Hypothetical Amortization: 360 months at 6% Total Principal Payments (months 1–12): $122,801.17 Total Principal Payments (months 13–24): $130,375.27 Total Principal Payments (months 1–24): $253,176.44 In each scenario below, the same amount of principal is repaid over the life of the loan and the monthly principal payments are based on the hypothetical mortgage style amortization (360 months at 6%). Scenario 1: The monthly principal payments vary each month for months 1–24 (Payment 1 - $9,955.05, Payment 2 – $10,004.83, etc.). Based on the FRB's response to a prior Q&A, "-1" should be reported. Scenario 2: The monthly principal payment is fixed at $10,549.02 by calculating the average of the total principal payments over months 1–24 ($253,176.44 / 24 = $10,549.02). Based on the FRB's response to a prior Q&A, "360" should be reported in Amortization (field 20). Scenario 3: The monthly principal payment is fixed at $10,233.43 for months 1–12 by calculating the average of the principal payments that would be received over months 1–12 utilizing the hypothetical mortgage style amortization and $10,864.61 for months 12–24 by calculating the average of the principal payments that would be received over months 13–24 utilizing the hypothetical mortgage style amortization. In this scenario, should "-1" or "360" be reported? A "non-standard" amortization refers to a principal payment schedule that is not based on a preset amortization schedule including payment schedules that have varying repayments based on the percentage of original or current balance, or repayments based upon certain trigger events. The current guidance indicates loans with equal monthly principal payments would be considered standard amortization while loans with unequal monthly principal payments would be considered non- standard amortization. That guidance seems inconsistent when considering the FRB's response to WSC0079. In WSC0079, while the total payment of principal and interest is equal each month, the principal portion of the total payment changes each month (Scenario 1 and Scenario 3 above). However, the FRB responded that the scenario in WSC0079 was standard amortization and that original amortization in months should be reported. Based on the FRB's response to WSC0079, it seems like Scenario 1 and Scenario 3 above should also be reported as standard amortization. Please explain why all loans with a preset amortization schedule that is based on a mortgage style amortization would not be treated as standard amortization. A: As stated in WSC0079, CRE loans with a mortgage style amortization (fixed total payment amount comprised of principal and interest where the principal is paid down according to a regular amortization schedule) would be considered standard amortization for purposes of reporting on FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.2 field no. 20 (Amortization) and should be reported as the number of months in the original amortization term. With respect to the example scenarios provided, for scenario 1, report non-standard amortization (-1) in field no. 20 as both the principal and total monthly payments are variable unlike a standard amortization. For scenarios 2 and 3, report "360" in Field no. 20 as mortgage style amortization in these scenarios would be considered standard amortization over 360 months. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000897, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): One of my teammates noticed a small change in the CRE instructions for Participation Flag. This field now includes a statement regarding Fronting Exposures. There are no fronting exposures in CRE. Is the Fed planning on adding fronting exposure to CRE? Or did I miss an update that fronting should have already been added to CRE? I can't find anything that indicates this change except for this reference in the newest instructions. Please advise. A: The change referenced in regards to how fronting exposures should be reported in Field 7 (Participation Flag) of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.2 (Commercial Real Estate Schedule) was inadvertently included and effective for the Q1:2018 FR Y-14Q H.2 instructions. However, the Federal Reserve notes that fronting exposures are required to be reported on both the FR Y-14Q H.1 and H.2. schedules. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000767, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): (Field 101) Target Hold: Regarding the Target Hold field, if an asset is marked as Held for Sale (HFS), should the Target Hold be reported as 0.0000? For example, if there is a $10mm HFS facility in a $100mm total facility, should the BHC report 0.1 or 0.0 for this $10mm HFS facility? Commitments that are managed under HFS accounting treatment are required to be sold within one year and the BHC expects to reduce that exposure down to zero. Therefore, we believe it should be 0.0, but please confirm. The remaining exposure would be a $90m Held for Investment facility (HFI). To complement the example, the deal is a $100m syndicated facility, BHC commits $40m (the other $60m are committed among the other participants/banks on the syndicated deal). The BHC's commitment is split into two facilities: a $10m HFS facility and a $30m HFI facility. For the HFS facility, should the Target Hold be reported as 0 or 0.1? Commitments that are managed under HFS accounting treatment are required to be sold within one year and the BHC expects to reduce that exposure down to zero. A: The FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate loan population includes corporate loans and leases that are held for sale (HFS) and held for investment (HFI) as of the report date (i.e., quarter end). Target Hold is reported for loans in the syndicated loan pipeline (Options 1, 2 or 3 in Field 100) based upon the amount the BHC intends to hold when closed and settled. Closed and settled refers to the final phase where loan documents are fully executed and binding with post-closing sell-down to all participants complete. Report in Field 101 (Target Hold) the percentage of the total commitment the BHC or IHC intends to hold when the syndication closes and settles, regardless of whether the eventual accounting treatment is held for sale or held for investment. If the credit facility has closed and settled (Option 4 in Field 100), Target Hold is reported as "NA." Further, for purposes of the FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate collection, a credit facility is defined as a credit extension to a legal entity under a specific credit agreement. Assuming the $10 million exposure described as HFS and the $30 million exposure described as HFI represent credit extensions under separate credit agreements and the BHC intends to hold the former, but does not intend to hold the latter once closed and settled, the BHC should report 0.0000 in Field 101 (Target Hold) for the $10 million facility and 1.0000 for the $30 million facility. If the BHC's intentions remain the same, but the exposure are not governed by separate credit agreements, the BHC should report a single facility where Field 24 (Committed Exposure Global) is $40 million and Field 101 (Target Hold) is 0.7500. (FRB Response: July 10, 2019) Q (Y140000768, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Maturity Date for Commercial Card (related to field 19 "Maturity Date"). For commercial card exposure, what date should be reported as maturity date? A: For international business and corporate credit card or charge card loans with a committed balance greater than $1 million for which a commercially-graded corporation is ultimately responsible for repayment of credit losses incurred, enter ‘9999-01-01' for the maturity date. (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000869, General): It has become a standard industry practice for banks to add zero rate language in regard to setting the floor for the selected interest index within credit agreements (base rate floor). As a result, since the base rate floor is 0%, the margin rate becomes the actual floor. Given this practice, credit agreements typically do not include a specific definition of an interest rate floor. As an example, a credit agreement states that the facility has an index rate of Libor with a floor of 0%, and the margin is 2.5%. As such, the rate can never fall below 2.5%. Should the floor be reported as 2.5% or "none" for Corp field 42 and CRE field 32? A: If the credit agreement states the interest rate floor on the base rate is 0% and there is a contractual margin of 2.5%, report the effective floor for Fields 42 and 31 (Interest Rate Floor) on the H.1 (corporate) and H.2 (CRE) schedules as "0.025," respectively. As indicated in WSL0139 and WSL0149, implied interest rate floors should not be reported (i.e., for a current base rate and minimum spread not specifically stated in the credit agreement report "NONE"). (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000917, General): Under U.S. GAAP, when an entity owns a significant variable interest in a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) that results in the unilateral ability to exercise the most significant decisions of the SPV, that entity is required to consolidate the SPV's assets and liabilities. In instances where those securities are Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) or Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLOs), the entity will gross-up the underlying loans on its balance sheet. If the firm decides that the underlying securities should be treated as banking book positions, the firm would like to reflect the grossed-up positions as banking book as well and thus move these from scheduled HC-D to schedule HC-C of the FR Y-9C. The rationale behind this move is that the firm may intend to hold some of these purchased securities until maturity or refinancing and thus the grossed-up loans will also remain on the balance sheet. This move would in theory bring these positions into scope for schedule H1/H2 of the FR Y-14Q. Since these are GAAP adjusting entries and do not represent loans that the firm has issued nor true risk/economics to the firm, can these positions be excluded from H1/H2 of the FR Y-14Q and instead noted as a reconciling item between the FR Y-9C to FR Y-14Q? A: The FR Y-14Q Wholesale loan population includes all corporate and commercial real estate loans and leases (Schedules H.1 and H.2) that are classified as held for investment (HFI) (as defined in the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C General Instructions) and held for sale (HFS) as of the report date (i.e., quarter end) at the consolidated holding company level subject to reporting thresholds and exclusions as detailed in the instructions. This includes all consolidated positions that are HFI or HFS and are reported on FR Y-9C, Schedules HC-C or HC-L (including assets of consolidated special purpose entities). Look to the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C classification of the underlying loans contained within the SPE to determine whether the item is reportable on either Schedule H.1 or H.2 of the FR Y-14Q. This subject was addressed previously in a prior question. (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000923, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Response to FAQ (Y140000800, FRB Response: June 20, 2018) states: "For purposes of FR Y-14Q reporting, refer to the H.1 Corporate instructions and ‘[r]eport the country in which the obligor is headquartered' for Field 6 (Country). Fields 52 through 82 (the Obligor Financial Data section) should be left blank for obligors domiciled (as defined in the FR Y-9C Glossary entry for ‘domicile') outside of the U.S." According to these instructions, we should report the country in which the obligor is physically headquartered for Field 6 (Country), but for determining domicile for purposes of including or excluding fields 52-82, FR Y-9C glossary entry for "domicile" should be used (emphasis added): "Domicile: Domicile is used to determine the foreign (non-U.S. addressee) or domestic (U.S. addressee) location of a customer of the reporting holding company for the purposes of these reports. Domicile is determined by the principal residence address of an individual or the principal business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. If other addresses are used for correspondence or other purposes, only the principal address, insofar as it is known to the reporting holding company, should be used in determining whether a customer should be regarded as a U.S. or non-U.S. addressee. For purposes of defining customers of the reporting holding company, U.S. addressees include residents of the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories and possessions. The term U.S. addressee generally includes U.S.-based subsidiaries of foreign banks and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks. Non-U.S. addressees include residents of any foreign country. The term non-U.S. addressee generally includes foreign-based subsidiaries of other U.S. banks and holding companies. For customer identification purposes, the IBFs of other U.S. depository institutions are U.S. addressees. (This is in contrast to the treatment of the IBFs of a subsidiary bank which are treated as foreign offices of the bank.)" "The country in which the obligor is headquartered," used for Field 6 (Country), could be interpreted to mean something different than "principal business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship," used to determine domicile for fields 52-82. For example, a company could be physically headquartered in one country, but have a different address in a different country from which it principally does business. This could lead to inconsistency in how residency of obligor is defined for purposes of what is reported in Field 6 versus Fields 52 through 82. Can you please clarify if this inconsistency is intentional, or should a consistent definition of country of obligor be applied for what is reported in Field 6 and Fields 52 through 82? A: For purposes of FR Y-14Q reporting, refer to the H.1 Corporate instructions and "[r]eport the country in which the obligor is headquartered" for Field 6 (Country). Fields 52 through 82 (the Obligor Financial Data section) should be left blank for obligors domiciled (as defined in the FR Y-9C Glossary entry for "domicile") outside of the U.S. This question was previously answered in Y140000800. (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000930, General): Under U.S. GAAP, funded loans participated under Loan Market Association (LMA) participation documentation do not meet requirements for true sales. For consolidation purposes these participations on IFRS entities are grossed back up onto our balance sheet for U.S. GAAP reporting. The firm would like to move these participation gross-ups from trading book to banking book and thus from schedule HC-D to schedule HC-C of the FR Y-9C. The rationale for moving these positions to banking book is that since we have already sold the economics and risk of this loan to a third party, there is no way for these positions to be removed from our balance sheet unless the loan terminates or matures. Since these participations are from our trading business, there is no expectation that we would be able to upgrade these participations to assignments to meet true sale. This move would in theory bring these positions into scope for schedule H1/H2 of the FR Y-14Q. Since these are GAAP adjusting entries, and we do not own the economics of these positions, can these positions be excluded from schedules H1/H2 of the FR Y-14Q and instead noted as a reconciling item between the FR Y-9C to FR Y-14Q? A: The FR Y-14Q Wholesale loan population includes all corporate and commercial real estate loans and leases (Schedules H.1 and H.2) that are classified as held for investment (HFI) (as defined in the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C General Instructions) and held for sale (HFS) as of the report date (i.e., quarter end) at the consolidated holding company level subject to reporting thresholds and exclusions as detailed in the instructions. This includes all consolidated positions that are HFI or HFS and are reported on FR Y-9C, Schedules HC-C or HC-L (including assets of consolidated special purpose entities). Look to the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C classification of the underlying loans contained within the SPE to determine whether the item is reportable on either Schedule H.1 or H.2 of the FR Y-14Q. This subject was addressed previously in prior questions . (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000886, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: This is a follow up question to Q&A #Y140000776, providing more background information to illustrate the issue. Should instruction for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1. – Wholesale risk – corporate loan data, field no. 18, Origination date, and Schedule H.2. – Wholesale risk – Commercial Real Estate field no. 10, Origination date, be followed even if the instruction related to definition of major modification to a loan is not consistent with U.S. GAAP, which is the foundation for FR Y-9C and Call Report? Background: There is currently inconsistency in the definition of major modification between FR Y-14Q Schedule H and FR Y-9C (which is consistent with U.S. GAAP). This difference results in the firm needing to maintain two different processes in order to be in compliance with the respective reporting instructions. This difference will further compound when the firm is implementing the new U.S. GAAP reporting requirements related to Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASC 326 – Financial Instruments – Credit Losses or Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL)). Definition of major modification – U.S. GAAP The terms of the modified loan are at least as favorable to the lender as terms for comparable loans to other customers with similar collection risks who are not refinancing or restructuring a loan with the lender. This condition is met if the new loan's effective yield is at least equal to the effective yield for such loans and the modifications are more than minor. Modifications are determined to be more than minor if the difference between the present value (PV) of the cash flows (CFs) under the terms of the modified loan and the PV of the remaining CFs under the terms of the original loan is >10%, or Modifications may also be determined to be more than minor if the difference between the PV of the CFs under the terms of the modified loan and the PV of the remaining CFs under the terms of the original loan is <10%, but the modification is more than minor based on a qualitative evaluation: Significant changes in the collateral posted Significant addition or deletion of covenant terms Significant change in subordination Significant changes to the maturity date (interpreted as > 6 months) Addition/replacement of guarantor Definition of major modification – FR Y-14Q A modification to the loan is considered major only when the obligor has executed a new or amended and restated credit agreement. Major modification excludes: Extension options at the sole discretion of the borrower Covenants Waivers Change in the maturity date Re-pricing Periodic credit reviews All renewals meeting the definition of Field 91, Renewal Date Difference in definition and impact The difference will create significant difficulty in operational process. The following examples illustrate some of the operational challenges and questions we have in applying the different criteria across the relevant reports: Example 1: the maturity date of a loan is extended by more than 6 months which results in a new loan being recognized under U.S. GAAP, but no new or amended and restated credit agreement Report the new loan in FR Y9-C/Call Report as well as FR Y-14Q. Under CECL, recognizing the new loan results in a new origination in the required vintage disclosures. What should be reported in FR Y-14Q, Schedule H, origination date: the new loan but with the origination date of the original credit agreement? What should be reported in the related data fields, e.g., Schedule H.2, Field 20 Amortization, which seems to imply that a separate calculation would be required? A: BHCs are required to follow the Y-14Q H.1 and H.2 instructions for Origination Date (H.1 – Field 18, H.2 – Field 10). Additional context notwithstanding, this question is substantively similar to Q&As Y140000776 and Y140000695, and accordingly, the answer is the same. (FRB Response: August 15, 2018) Q (Y140000800, General): In reviewing the FR Y-9C and FR Y-14Q instructions related to customer domicile, we noted an apparent discrepancy. Per the FR Y-9C glossary instructions: Domicile: Domicile is used to determine the foreign (non-U.S. addressee) or domestic (U.S. addressee) location of a customer of the reporting holding company for the purposes of these reports. Domicile is determined by the principal residence address of an individual or the principal business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. If other addresses are used for correspondence or other purposes, only the principal address, insofar as it is known to the reporting holding company, should be used in determining whether a customer should be regarded as a U.S. or non-U.S. addressee. Based upon guidance provided by the FRB-NY, for Domicile, the principal business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship is the country of incorporation (i.e., "location where it was legally established" per guidance provided). The FR Y-14Q Wholesale instructions have the following for Domicile: Fields 52 through 82 (Obligor Financial Data section) must be reported for all corporate loans and leases as of the report date, excluding loans with (i) An obligor domiciled (as defined in the FR Y-9C Glossary entry for "domicile") outside of the U.S. (Field 6): Field No. Field Name (Technical Field Name) MDRM Description Allowable Values 6 Country ( Country ) CLCO9031 Report the country in which the obligor is headquartered. Use the 2 letter Country Code It seems that the above FR Y-14Q instructions indicate that Domicile could be other than the country of legal incorporation. This is very often the case with shipping companies. Very often, shipping companies are incorporated where the local law is much less lax than the country where the Headquarters and operations reside. The above FR Y-14 instructions seem to mean that the FR Y-9C glossary entry is referring to the country in which the obligor is headquartered; not the country of incorporation. As there can be differences between report definitions, please clarify if this inconsistency is intended or there should be convergence in definitions. Please clarify and provided guidance on the correct definition for each of the FR Y-9C and FR Y-14Q reports. A: For purposes of FR Y-14Q reporting, refer to the H.1 Corporate instructions and "[r]eport the country in which the obligor is headquartered" for Field 6 (Country). Fields 52 through 82 (the Obligor Financial Data section) should be left blank for obligors domiciled (as defined in the FR Y-9C Glossary entry for "domicile") outside of the U.S. (FRB Response: June 20, 2018) Q (Y140000817, General): Question: Please clarify if the reported value for Schedule H.1/H.2, field 27/22, Line of business, should be the originating line of business (LOB) even if this is no longer the LOB that currently risk manages the facility. Background: The instructions to FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1/H.2, field 27/22, Line of business, indicate that these fields should provide the name of the internal LOB that originated the credit facility, using the institution's own department description. However, as clients grow, they may move from one LOB to another, e.g., from Commercial Banking to Corporate and Investment Bank, depending on where they can be risk managed best. Reporting the originating LOB in such cases therefore no longer reflects the risk management process (including the financial statement spreading and risk rating) for this facility, and is not an attribute that is tracked. The firm currently reports Schedule H.1/H.2, fields 27/22 based on current LOB, not originating LOB, as this reflects our risk management process. We will continue to report on this basis until we receive otherwise instructions. A: For the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 field no. 27 (Line of business), report the line of business as the name of the internal line of business that originated the credit facility using the institutions own department descriptions. For the FR Y-14Q Schedule H.2 field no. 22, provide the internal line of business that originated the CRE Loan using the institution's own department descriptions. (FRB Response: June 20, 2018) Q (Y140000861, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): This question is a follow up to FAQ #Y140000772. Question: Does the FRB expect client financial data be reported in fields 52-82 of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 for liquidity commitments to multi-seller conduit special purpose entities? Background: Liquidity commitment facilities to multi-seller conduit special purpose entities are well structured with good quality credit and low credit losses. We would therefore like to confirm that they are treated as "financial institutions" in the FRB's modelling in line with their credit quality and are not regarded as low quality due to financials not being reported as a result of our internal NAICS code assignment. The firm is currently not populating fields 52 through 82 for facilities with SPEs that are part of multi-seller conduit structures based on internal NAICS code classification (NAICS code beginning with 52). FAQ #Y140000772 Question: Should obligor financial data in fields 52-82 of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 be populated for facilities with Special Purpose Entity (SPE) obligors that are part of multi-seller commercial paper conduit securitization structures? Background: As per the instructions to FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, section C. Obligor Financial Data Section Instructions, Fields 52 through 82 (Obligor Financial Data section) should exclude data for obligors with a NAICS code beginning with 52 (Finance and Insurance). The firm currently classifies SPEs that are part of multi-seller conduit structures with NAICS code beginning with 52. On this basis we are currently not populating fields 52 through 82 for the facilities with such obligors. However, the assignment of the NAICS code for SPEs is subjective, and we would like to confirm if the FRB agrees with our classification as Finance and Insurance obligors, given the size of this portfolio is large. We will continue with our current practice until we receive otherwise instructions from you. Response NAICS codes are self-assigned and the Federal Reserve does not play any role in assigning or approving NAICS codes. We expect BHCs to assign industry codes in a fashion that is logical, transparent, consistent, and repeatable. A: For purposes of FR Y-14Q reporting, refer to the permitted exclusions for the Obligor Financial Data section (Fields 52 through 82) outlined in the H.1 Corporate instructions. If the obligor meets one of the exclusions, Fields 52 through 82 should be left blank. (FRB Response: June 20, 2018) Q (Y140000863, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): As it relates to CRE edit 174, given the Wholesale schedule instrument level data gets rolled up to a facility record and the facility has a past maturity date, but the underlying instruments have a valid Maturity Date > QE date, then the instruments will still be reported/rolled up to the Facility level record. In instances such as this should BHCs report the Last Valuation Date even after the Maturity Date? A: Field 43 (Last Valuation Date) should be reported as the date of the most recent valuation of the predominant property (i.e., property with the highest collateral value) within the facility, even if the valuation date occurred after the maturity date reported in field 19 (Maturity Date). If the facility has contractually matured per the credit agreement, provide an explanation of the edit failure in the edit check report. (FRB Response: June 20, 2018) Q (Y140000856, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question on Schedule H1 and H2: TOPIC – ASC 310-30: The draft proposed instructions published in July 2017 contained the following update for the ASC31030 field relating to schedules H1 & H2: "ASC 310-30 addresses the accounting for difference between contractual and expected cash flows for loans purchased with evidence of credit deterioration, which is defined in the accounting guidance as the nonaccretable difference. The amount referred to in this field is the remaining nonaccretable difference, less the amount of that difference that is reflected in Field 30." The nonaccretable difference carries a negative balance on the general ledger and the HC-C schedule as it reduces the positive loan balance. H1 edit #344 and H2 edit #185 state that the ASC31030 amount should not be reported as a negative value. Please clarify if the nonaccretable difference should be reported as it resides on the general ledger and the HC-C schedule or if another treatment should be applied to conform with the edit checks. For example, should the absolute value of the nonaccretable difference in GL be reported? A: Consistent with reserves ASC 310-10 (Field 30), the nonaccretable difference ASC 310-30 (Field 31) should generally be reported as a positive value. Negative values may arise in certain circumstances, such as, when an allocation from the portfolio level to the loan level is reported. (FRB Response: May 30, 2018) Q (Y140000774, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question on Schedule H1: Credit Facility Type field 20: We have credit structures where a term loan is tiered into multiple term loans that are ordered by risk (Term Loan A least risky – Term Loan C most risky). The determination of risk usually is determined by repayment schedule, priority of payment, lien position of collateral, term, pricing (riskiest loan would be the most expensive), etc. While the A/B/C structure is more prevalent on syndicated credits, it's possible for this structure to exist on bi-lateral credits, as well. A Term Loan A/B/C may also be a bridge loan, asset based loan, or DIP facility. For purposes of reporting Credit Facility Type (field 20) in Schedule H1, our interpretation based on FRB instructions/guidance is that: The values for Term Loan A/B/C apply only to syndicated credits. Term Loan A/B/C should be reported even if the Term Loan A/B/C is a bridge loan, asset based loan, or DIP facility. Term Loan A/B/C should reflect the relative risk of the term loan in the credit structure (Term Loan A least risky – Term Loan C most risky). All term loans in bi-lateral credits should be reported as Term Loan (7) unless it can be more specifically described as a Term Loan – Bridge (11), Term Loan – Asset Based (12), or Term Loan – DIP (13). Are our interpretations correct? A: Per the FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate instructions, the descriptions and codes in Credit Facility Type (Field 20) "mirror the requirements for Shared National Credit reporting," with the exception of option 18. Per the requirements of Shared National Credit reporting, "[r]eport the code that best describes the type of credit." (FRB Response: April 11, 2018) Q (Y140000782, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Please confirm if Standby Bond Purchase Agreements are reportable on the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan submission. A: Reporting BHCs and IHCs are expected to report Standby Bond Repurchase Agreements if the unused commitment on Schedule HC-L would be reported in the relevant FR Y-9C category (as addressed in the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan instructions) in the event such loans were drawn. (FRB Response: April 11, 2018) Q (Y140000784, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: For facilities with multiple borrowers or multiple guarantors, where combined financials are used in the underwriting process and in the ongoing credit review process, please confirm that it is correct to report combined financials in the obligor financial data section for primary source of repayment. Background: The instructions to Schedule H1, Obligor financial data section, relate to the legal entity that provides the primary source of repayment for the credit facility identified in field 15. However, while there is emphasis on a legal entity, the instructions also clearly refer to the primary source of repayment used in underwriting. For certain business units, such as lending to car dealerships, it is common to underwrite a facility with a group of co-borrowers where each is a separate legal entity. Similarly, the firm may underwrite a facility to a holding company where the facility is 100% guaranteed by a group of operating entities, or dealerships in this case. In both scenarios, the full amount of the facility could generally not be carried by, or would not have been extended to, any one of the legal entities on their own. As part of the underwriting process, the credit analysts/underwriters combine the financials of the co-borrowers, or operating entities, to assess the credit risk. The same process of using groups combined financials is also followed when evaluating the facility's probability of default and in the ongoing credit review process, including internal grading and annual reviews. The firm currently reports the combined group's financials that are resident in our internal financial spreading application in Schedule H for such facilities, as this is in line with our underwriting and credit review process. We will continue this practice until we receive otherwise instructions. A: Per the FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate instructions, the financials provided should be from the legal entity that provides the primary source of repayment. When there are multiple entities that are responsible for payment and there is no clear predominant borrower that serves as the primary source of repayment, the Obligor Financial Data Section should reflect the financial information of the singular entity that best represents the credit repayment capacity for the credit facility. Do not report combined financials. (FRB Response: April 11, 2018) Q (Y140000785, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: With respect to your response to question ID#140000710, please confirm that we can report the latest obligor financial data in FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1., Fields 54-82 that is most recently used by our credit review process. In a situation when the most recently published financial data from public sources just became available, however, it has not been used in our business as usual process, we should not be reporting this data. Instead we shall report the data that's used as part of our business as usual process. Background: FAQ tracking ID#Y140000710, FRB response via email on 12/12/17: For fields 52 through 82 of the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule, continue to report the most recent available financial statement data according to the BHC's business as usual process. Per the Obligor Financial Data Section Instructions, the financial data fields "should be populated with the most recent financial statement data available as of the report date (i.e., the most recent financial data found in the consolidated holding company's financial spreading system as of the report date) and should not be bound by financial statement data that was used in the consolidated holding company's most recent formal rating review." A: For fields 52 through 82 of the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule, continue to report the most recent available financial statement data according to the BHC's business as usual process. Per the Obligor Financial Data Section Instructions, the financial data fields "should be populated with the most recent financial statement data available as of the report date (i.e., the most recent financial data found in the consolidated holding company's financial spreading system as of the report date) and should not be bound by financial statement data that was used in the consolidated holding company's most recent formal rating review." Similarly, the most recent financial statement data available as of the report date should not be bound by the most recent credit review process. (FRB Response: April 11, 2018) Q (Y140000776, General): This is a follow-up question to your response to FAQ ID#Y140000695. Does the FRB confirm that the FR Y-14Q exposures can be reported differently than U.S. GAAP and therefore FR Y-9C for when modifications would be considered as more than minor? Is there a concern for the operational burden of capturing one facility in a separate way for FR Y-9C and Y-14Q, which will also ultimately create difference across these two reports? A: BHCs are expected to follow the Y-14Q H.1 and H.2 instructions for Origination Date (H.1 – Field 18, H.2 – Field 10). (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000766, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Fronting Exposure (related to field 20 "Credit Facility Type"): When the reporting BHC is also the Agent Bank the breakout of exposure by participant lender is readily available. In cases where the BHC is a fronting bank but is not the Agent Bank, the BHC would not always have access to the current lender list and/or breakout. Should we continue to provide the details for the non-Agent population using the best available data which may not be always up to date, or should it only provide the fronting exposure where the BHC is the Agent Bank? We believe it should be consistent with the requirement for Field 87 (SNC Internal Credit ID) which is required to report ONLY when the BHC is the Agent Bank. (Field 87 "Report ‘NA' if the credit facility is not reported in the Shared National Credit SNC collection or if the reporting BHC is not the agent.") A: Per the FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate instructions, for fronting exposures the BHC "should indicate Option 18 ["Fronting Exposure"] in Field 20 "Credit Facility Type." Continue to report the Loan and Obligor Description and the Obligor Financial Data sections for Fronting Exposures as per the instructions. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000769, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: Please confirm that the left lead BHC (i.e., the lead syndicate bank), who is not fronting the commitment, should report the amount for which it has received credit approval and for which it is committed in FR Y-14Q, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data Schedule, Field no. 24, Committed exposure global, for corporate loans and leases in the syndicated pipeline that are reported as options 1 (single-signed), 2 (dual-signed) or 3 (closed but not settled) in Field 100. This means, that in the following example the BHC left lead would report $250m in Field no. 24: BHC is NOT fronting the commitment, Total commitment in the commitment letter to the client is $1B, Commitment of each, the BHC and 3 other banks, is $250M, The commitment to the client is not a joint commitment, i.e., the commitment letter clearly advises of the four banks' several, but not joint, commitment to each provide $250M of the $1bn overall financing, The credit approval at BHC is for $250M. Should the BHC left lead commit to fronting the facility, which often occurs at a point in time after the commitment to the client, the BHC left lead shall report $1B in Field no. 24 from that point on when it has credit approval for $1B. It is our practice to report the amount approved and committed by the BHC in Field no. 24, i.e., in the above example, $250M when the BHC left lead is not fronting and $1B when the BHC left lead is fronting. We will continue to report on this basis until we receive clarification from you. Background: The instructions to Field no. 24 require reporting of the total commitment amount approved and stated in the commitment letter. Given that if the BHC is not fronting the credit approval at the BHC is for $250M, and the commitment letter clearly states that there is no joint commitment and that the BHC is only committed for $250M, the amount to be reported in Field no. 24 should be $250M. If the BHC is fronting the facility, the credit approval at the BHC is for $1B at that point and based on the fronting agreement the BHC is committed for $1B. However, a previous question (see extract below) does not explicitly distinguish between fronting and non-fronting and could be read to imply that the total commitment amount to be reported by the left lead syndicate bank would be $1B in either case, regardless of the credit approval at the BHC. Question: For the proposed 9/30/16 requirement to report the potential exposures in the syndicated loan pipeline, it was confirmed that this requirement should only be completed when the bank has signed the commitment letter and extended terms to the borrower. Please confirm if this would include both scenarios described below; also, confirm that the reporting specified for each scenario aligns with expectations. Scenario 1 – BHC is left lead (i.e., lead syndicate bank). Total commitment is $1B – BHC sends out commitment for $1B BHC target hold / underwriting commitment is $250M 3 other banks, each with $250M underwriting commitment. Following would be reported in Field 24 (Committed Exposure) during stages of syndication: If Field 100 (Syndicated Loan Flag) is 1 (Single signed), 2 (Dual signed) or 3 (Closed but not settled), report $1B. If Field 100 (Syndicated Loan Flag) is 4 (Closed and settled), report $250M. [.] Answer: The commitment in Scenario 1 should be reported in the H.1. schedule as outlined in the example. [..] A: If the total commitment to the client per the commitment letter is $1 billion, but the commitment letter clearly states that there is no joint commitment and that the BHC is only committed for $250 million, then the BHC should report $250 million for Committed Exposure Global (field 24). If the BHC commits to fronting, the BHC should report the $1 billion in total commitment as four separate $250 million facilities to the client and the three other participant banks. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000772, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Question: Should obligor financial data in fields 52-82 of FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 be populated for SPE obligors with facilities with Special Purpose Entity (SPE) obligors that are used as part of multi-seller commercial paper conduit securitization structures? Background As per the instructions to FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1, section C. Obligor Financial Data Section Instructions, Fields 52 through 82 (Obligor Financial Data section) should exclude data for obligors with a NAICS code beginning with 52 (Finance and Insurance). The firm currently classifies SPEs that are used as part of multi-seller conduit structures with NAICS code beginning with 52. On this basis we are currently not populating fields 52 through 82 for the facilities with such obligors. However, the assignment of the NAICS code for SPEs is subjective, and we would like to confirm if the FRB agrees with our classification as Finance and Insurance obligors, given the size of this portfolio is large. We will continue with our current practice until we receive otherwise instructions from you. A: NAICS codes are self-assigned and the Federal Reserve does not play any role in assigning or approving NAICS codes. We expect BHCs to assign industry codes in a fashion that is logical, transparent, consistent, and repeatable. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000777, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): This is a follow-up question to your response to FAQ ID#Y140000697. Very specifically, does the FRB expect to see fronting positions aligned to FR Y9C classification for Banks and NDFIs (based on exposure to the participant bank as borrower) or to the ultimate borrower, which may be a C&I classification or other non-financial entity? A: Report the integer code corresponding to the line number on the FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C in which the exposure would be recorded if it were drawn by the borrower. In the example provided, the fronting exposure could be reported under any of the available options for Field 26 (Line Reported on FR Y-9C), including option 4 (Commercial and industrial loans to U.S. addresses). (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000699, General): FR Y-14Q Instructions released on 8/25/2017 for schedules H1 and H2 include a change to how the original internal credit facility ID/loan number fields (original IDs) are to be populated. The change specifically outlines the treatment of facilities where the reason for disposal is rebookings/restructures or transfers between obligations. Please confirm that the four examples below that latest quarter are correct with regard to the reporting of the original IDs and the disposed records. Example 1. Modification of existing loan, no new loan number Submission Loan number Original loan number Disposition flag December 1, 2016 Loan A Loan A 0 December 1, 2016 Loan B Loan B 0 March 1, 2017 Loan A Loan B 0 * No disposition record Example 2. Modification of existing loan, new loan number Submission Loan number Original loan number Disposition flag December 1, 2016 Loan A Loan A 0 December 1, 2016 Loan B Loan B 0 March 1, 2017 Loan C Loan A, Loan B 0 March 1, 2017 Loan A Loan A 1 March 1, 2017 Loan B Loan B 1 Example 3. Consolidation of multiple facilities into one new facility Submission Loan number Original loan number Disposition flag December 1, 2016 Loan A Loan A 0 December 1, 2016 Loan B Loan B 0 December 1, 2016 Loan C Loan C 0 March 1, 2017 Loan D Loan A, Loan B, Loan C 0 March 1, 2017 Loan A Loan A 1 March 1, 2017 Loan B Loan B 1 March 1, 2017 Loan C Loan C 1 Example 4. One facility books to many facilities Submission Loan number Original loan number Disposition flag December 1, 2016 CTC A CTC A 0 March 1, 2017 Loan A CTC A 0 March 1, 2017 Loan B CTC A 0 March 1, 2017 Loan C CTC A 0 * No disposition record Currently the data type for the original ID fields in the H1 and H2 schedules are set to VARCHAR(50). Given that the combined size of multiple IDs could exceed 50 characters is it anticipated that the data size will be increasing in the technical instructions? The instructions for the original IDs state that the field represents the internal identification code assigned to the credit facility in the previous submission. To date the original IDs have been used to join current and prior quarter data in an effort to replicate the edit results of the Fed's QA process. Given that the original ID fields will now contain multiple IDs, what would be the recommended approach to join current and prior quarter data (current IDs vs original IDs)? Could the edit logic be updated to include the recommended join? A: Examples 1-4 are reported correctly. The data type for IDs in H.1 and H.2 schedules was expanded to VARCHAR(500). Where possible, the edit logic will be updated to reflect the instruction clarification. For original ID fields that contain multiple IDs, the edit logic will run on the individual IDs and not on the aggregate. (FRB Response: February 21, 2018) Q (Y140000724, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): We would like to request additional clarification on the "Prepayment Penalty Flag" field. With regards to this flag, there is a situation for which we would like clarification on the applicability of this flag. Specifically in the UK, when a client borrows, the bank funds the contract on Libor based on the tenor of the loan facility. In the event the client pays off the contract prior to maturity and the bank incurs a cost, we may recover these Libor Breakage Costs from the client. The cost mentioned is viewed as Libor Breakage Costs and not as a prepayment penalty, for which we understand it is industry practice in the UK to recover. Considering this, please advise if this cost recovery should be considered a Prepayment Penalty or we should report these facilities using option 3, "No prepayment penalty clause." A: If the "Libor Breakage Costs" are a contractual obligation, then indicate option 1 (Yes) for purpose of reporting Prepayment Penalty Flag (H.1 Field 94). If the "Libor Breakage Costs" are not a contractual obligation, report option 3 (No prepayment penalty clause). (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000753, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): The instructions for Schedule H.1 allow for lines 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 & 82 to be reported for a trailing twelve month (TTM) period, or based on annual statements if a TTM period is not available. Most borrowers are legally required to submit 12 month statements on an annual basis only per their credit agreements, and provide 3, 6, or 9 month statements for interim periods. Therefore, TTM figures are not readily available in the bank's spreading system for interim periods, and it would be necessary to perform manual calculations using 3 different statements to back into a TTM period on an interim basis. If the most current available financial statement is for an interim period (3, 6, or 9 months), are we expected to perform manual calculations to determine a TTM period or is it acceptable to use the readily available annual 12 month financial statements? A: Given the example provided, if interim period TTM financial statements are not readily available in the company's financial spreading systems (in accordance with its credit policy), the BHC may continue to report the most recent annual 12 month financial statements. (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000764, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data) (Field 96) Participation Interest: When the reporting BHC is also the Agent Bank the participation interest is readily available as both the current exposure and global exposure values are known. In the cases where the BHC is not the Agent Bank, only the current exposure of the BHC is tracked as the BHC is only concerned with the risk it takes on and not that of the other participant lenders (which is the responsibility of the Agent Bank). In cases where the BHC is not the Agent Bank, should the Participation Interest be reported as N/A? This response would be consistent with the requirement for Field 87 (SNC Internal Credit ID), which is required to report ONLY when the BHC is the Agent Bank. (Field 87 "Report ‘NA' if the credit facility is not reported in the Shared National Credit SNC collection or if the reporting BHC is not the agent.") A: If the firm is not the Agent bank and is participating in the credit, and the credit facility is closed and settled (Field 100 Syndicated Loan Flag, Option 4), "report the percentage of the total loan commitment held by the firm" for Participation Interest (Field 96). (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000765, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data) (Field 100) Syndicated Loan Flag: We would like additional clarification on the difference between closed and settled and closed but not settled is required as the current guidelines do not provide a clear distinction for when to report these two options. Does closed refer to the Conditions Precedent (CPs) to the individual Credit Agreement having been met? If so, would closed and settled refer to the situation where each of the lenders have signed the Credit Agreement directly and/or when any underwritten or best-efforts obligation of the BHC have completely settled (reduced to $0)? If so, would closed but not settled refer to a situation where the BHC has unsettled underwritten or best-efforts obligations still on their book? The current guidelines suggest to use closed but not settled for commitments in cases where the BHC is "still pending execution of final documentation by all syndicate participants." Is this referring to trade documentation (i.e., Trade Confirmation, Assignment Agreement/Transfer Certificate, Funding Memorandum) or only referring to the loan documentation (i.e., Credit Agreement, commitment letter)? It appears that the current guidelines are suggesting that open underwritten and/or best-efforts obligations should be used to determine if an individual commitment is reported as closed and settled or closed but not settled, as items reported as closed but not settled would have the Target Hold field population and not the Participation Interest field. Since these commitments are generally booked under Held for Sale (HFS) accounting treatment, it logically makes sense to report in the Target Hold what the expected final obligation of the BHC (which would be always zero for HFS) once all of the original syndicate members have settled their commitments. A: Conditions precedent describe those actions by the parties to a loan, and other events, that must be satisfied before a loan can close; however, they are not sufficient to meet the reporting requirements. The instructions require that all loan documents must be fully executed and binding for a syndicated loan to be reported as closed. Further, the instructions require that post-closing selldown to all participants must be complete for a syndicated loan to be reported as settled. If unsettled or best-efforts obligations remain, then a syndicated loan may not be reported as settled. (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000775, General) Question on Schedule H1 and H2: Maturity Date (Field 19): The FRB has previously indicated, "If extension options are conditional on certain terms being met, such extension should be considered to be at the sole discretion of the borrower only when such conditions are in compliance with the credit agreement." The BHC seeks clarification on what "in compliance with the credit agreement" means. Credit agreements are written such that (i) the borrower has a window of time, typically 30-90 days prior to maturity, that it is eligible to exercise the extension (the "extension option window"), and (ii) the conditions that the borrower must meet to be eligible for the extension are reviewed for compliance only during the extension option window. As a result, it seems logical that the BHC would only measure for "compliance with the credit agreement" during the extension option window. Does the FRB agree with this approach? A: Per prior questions, the Maturity Date (Field 19) should be the last date upon which funds must be repaid, inclusive of extension options that are solely at the borrower's discretion. For purposes of reporting maturity date inclusive of extension options, the BHC should not measure compliance with terms of the extension option prior to the extension option window. (FRB Response: January 24, 2018) Q (Y140000710, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Please clarify the requirements for populating FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 - Corporate Loan Data Schedule, fields 54 through 82. Specifically: Please confirm that for clients that are publicly-traded corporate companies the most recent publicly available financial statement data should be reported, rather than the client financial statement data that was analyzed ("spread") in accordance with the firm's credit policy as part of the firm's most recent formal rating review. If the data that was used in the firm's most recent formal rating review is required, is it also required that the data has to be sourced from a financial spreading system? If so, please confirm that Excel-based user tools relying and integrating with 3rd party data providers are considered a financial spreading system. If not, should the value be populated as null if such tools are used rather than a financial spreading system? Background: The instructions to data Schedule H.1, fields 54 through 82 state: "unless otherwise instructed, a reporting bank should report the Fields as defined by its financial spreading systems (i.e., software programs on which the BHC or IHC spreads and analyzes the financial statements of its customers) in accordance with its credit policy. The financial statement data fields should be populated with the most recent financial statement data available as of the report date (i.e., the most recent financial data found in the consolidated holding company's financial spreading system as of the report date) and should not be bound by financial statement data that was used in the consolidated holding company's most recent formal rating review." The firm has certain exposures where the primary source of repayment entity is a public company with publicly available financial statement data. In such cases, the financial statement data most recently analyzed ("spread") as part of our formal rating review may not be the most recent financial statement data publicly available as of the report date. In addition, when analyzing or "spreading" financial statements in accordance with our credit policy, the firm uses Excel-based user tools relying and integrating with 3rd party data providers. Example: A publicly-traded corporate company ("Client A") is investment grade, and the financials were last spread in an Excel tool as part of the Annual Review completed in October 2016, which leveraged financial statement data reported as of September 30, 2016. For the FR Y-14Q reporting period dated March 31, 2017, is it correct that the firm reports Client A's most recent publicly available financial statement data as of December 31, 2016, or should the financial data that was spread as part of the Annual Review, i.e., as of September 30, 2016 be reported? The firm currently reports in Schedule H.1, fields 52 through 82, for public entities using the most recent publicly available financial statement data as of the report date. We will continue to report on this basis until we receive further clarification from you. A: For fields 52 through 82 of the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule, continue to report the most recent available financial statement data according to the BHC's business as usual process. Per the Obligor Financial Data Section Instructions, the financial data fields "should be populated with the most recent financial statement data available as of the report date (i.e., the most recent financial data found in the consolidated holding company's financial spreading system as of the report date) and should not be bound by financial statement data that was used in the consolidated holding company's most recent formal rating review." The most recent financial data available to the firm should be submitted, regardless of the storage medium. Per a prior question, "[w]hile data is often stored in financial spreading systems, the instructions only reference these types of systems as an example of the definition guidance. BHCs should report the required information from systems where such data is stored." (FRB Response: December 27, 2017) Q (Y140000718, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Questions regarding dropped Credit Facilities: What is the appropriate disposition flag (field 98) to report when a charge card account has been cancelled? What is the appropriate flag when a charge card account falls below the reporting threshold? Should it be option 6 or 7? What fields should be reported on Schedule H for accounts that are closed or not reportable on Schedule H because they are reported on Schedule K? Should it be only field 98? What is the definition of "disposed"? Has there been any consideration to the instructions been made for charge cards, which act differently from traditional loans? A: Per the H.1 Corporate FR Y-14Q Instructions for Disposition Flag (H.1 Field 98), when a charged card is cancelled, report 1 "Payoff – Report all instances where the credit facility has been paid in full by the borrower, a commitment to commit expired without closing, or where an undrawn credit facility reaches maturity and is not renewed." When a charge card drops below the 1 million dollar threshold for reporting on the FR Y-14 H.1 Corporate schedule and a commercially-graded corporation is responsible for repayment, choose option 6, "Below reporting threshold." If the facility was rated based on the obligor's credit score, report option 7, and indicate the schedule where the credit facility is now reported in Field 99. If the credit facility is transferred to FR Y-14M Schedule D.1 Domestic Credit Card Data Collection Data Dictionary, report "M.D.1." Per the H.1 Corporate FR Y-14Q Instructions, "[f]or corporate loans and leases disposed of during the quarter, report all fields as of the date of disposition, unless otherwise instructed in individual field descriptions." For corporate loans and leases that were disposed and are reported on Schedule K, the Supplemental Schedule, refer to Disposition Flag (Field 98) and choose option 7, "Transfer to another Y-14 schedule." Indicate the schedule where the credit facility is now reported in Field 99. Per the H.1 Corporate FR Y-14Q Instructions for Disposition Flag (H.1 Field 98), "If the BHC or IHC is still pursuing payment of principal, interest or fees, report as option "0"." Any other loan is considered disposed. We review the FR Y-14 instructions at least annually. (FRB Response: December 27, 2017) Q (Y140000732, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): We would like to receive additional clarification on the definition of "Mixed Use" as it applies to Schedule H.2 – Commercial Real Estate. The instructions read, "If the CRE Loan is secured by multiple property types and no single one predominates, indicate integer code for ‘Mixed'." Our interpretation of this instruction is that a position is only mixed, per this definition, in the extremely specific case where the Residential and C&I both have exactly the same collateral value. However, the business defines "Mixed Use" as a multifamily housing project in which non-housing commercial sources constitute more than 20% of effective gross income that will be used for underwriting. Kindly confirm if our interpretation of the instructions is accurate, or advise if the definition is correct as the business reports it. A: For purposes of reporting Property Type (Field 9) on the FR Y-14Q H.2 CRE schedule, indicate "Mixed" "[i]f the CRE Loan is secured by multiple property types and no single one predominates," or said another way, when no single property type has the "highest collateral value as of the last valuation date." Please use the definition in the FR Y-14Q H.2 CRE instructions and not that of the business. (FRB Response: December 27, 2017) Q (Y140000695, General): Should instruction for FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1. – Wholesale risk – Corporate Loan Data, field no. 18, Origination date, and Schedule H.2. – Wholesale risk – Commercial Real Estate field no. 10, Origination date, be followed even if the instruction related to definition of major modification to a loan is not consistent with U.S. GAAP, which is the foundation for FR Y-9C and Call Report? Background: Instructions to FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 – Wholesale risk – Corporate Loan Data Field no. 18, Origination date and Schedule H.2. – Wholesale risk – Commercial Real Estate, field no. 10, Origination date, include the following guidance on "origination date": "Report the origination date. The origination date is the contractual date of the credit agreement. (In most cases, this is the date the commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment). If there has been a major modification to the loan such that the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement, use the revised contractual date of the credit agreement as the origination date. The following independent examples would generally not result in a change in the contractual date of the loan, and thus would not be considered major modifications: (1) extension options at the sole discretion of the borrower; (2) covenants; (3) waivers; (4) change in the maturity date; (5) re-pricing; or (6) periodic credit reviews. Additionally, exclude all renewals which meet the definition in the ‘Renewal Date' Field 91." The above guidance on what constitutes a major modification to the loan does not align with U.S. GAAP, which is what FR Y-9C and Call Report are based on. Under U.S. GAAP the determination of whether a modification results in a new loan for accounting purposes depends on the significance of the changes to the terms of the original loan and not the legal form of the loan modification. In modifications where the terms are at least as favorable to the lender as the terms for comparable loans to other borrowers with similar risk characteristics who are not refinancing or restructuring a loan with the lender, the modified loan must be accounted for as a new loan. This condition would be met if The modified loan's effective yield is at least equal to the effective yield for comparable loans, and Modifications to the original loan are more than minor. If the difference between the present value of the cash flows under the terms of the modified loan and the present value of the remaining cash flows under the terms of the original loan is less than 10%, the firm must evaluate whether the modification is more than minor based on a qualitative evaluation of specific facts and circumstances: Significant changes in the collateral posted Significant addition or deletion of covenant terms Significant change in subordination Significant changes to the maturity date (interpreted as > 6 months) Addition/replacement of guarantor We plan to continue following the FR Y-14Q instruction for purpose of FR Y-14Q schedule H reporting until we receive further clarification from you. A: Continue to follow the FR Y-14Q H.1 and H.2 instructions for Origination Date (H.1 - Field 18, H.2 - Field 10). (FRB Response: December 20, 2017) Q (Y140000697, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Please clarify how a Bank Holding Company ("BHC") should report a credit facility that includes a fronting component for FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 – Corporate Loan Data Schedule, Field No. 26, Line Reported on FR Y-9C. Background: In 3Q16 the FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 instructions to field 26, were enhanced to include specific guidance on the reporting for fronting exposures: For fronting exposures, report the integer code corresponding to the line number on the HC-C in which the exposure would be recorded if it were drawn by the borrower. These instructions could be read to imply that banks should look through the participant lender for the fronting facility to the underlying borrower when reporting field 26. However, based on previous instructions from Q&As, the obligor for the fronting facilities is the participant lender. Example: Assume 10 banks, including the reporting BHC, which is fronting for all 9 other banks, each with a 10% share of a $50 million commitment. All of the other banks are U.S. depository financial institutions, which is Option 1, Loans to U.S. banks and other U.S. depository institutions, for Field No. 26, Line Reported on FR Y-9C. The borrower is a U.S. based Commercial and industrial ("C&I") borrower, which is Option 4, Commercial and industrial loans to U.S. addresses, for Field No. 26. Which of the following alternatives would be the correct way to report Field No. 26: $5 million reported as Option 4, Commercial and industrial loans to U.S. addresses, representing the BHC's exposure to the C&I borrower, and $45 million ($5 million for each participant lender facility record) as Option 1, Loans to U.S. banks and other U.S. depository institutions, representing the fronting on behalf of U.S. banks and other U.S. depository financial institutions; or $50 million as Option 4, Commercial and industrial loans to U.S. addresses, consisting of U.S. $5 million relating to BHC's facility record and $45 for the other 9 participant lender facility records? The Firm currently reports fronting facilities in line with alternative 1 above, based on guidance in a number of Q&As. We will continue to report on this basis until you advise otherwise. A: Per the FR Y-14Q H.1 Corporate instructions for Line Reported on FR Y-9C (H.1 Corporate – Field 26), "[f]or fronting exposures, report the integer code corresponding to the line number on the HC-C in which the exposure would be recorded if it were drawn by the borrower." Reporting in this way is necessary to ensure correct reconciliation to the FR Y-9C and FR Y-14Q M Balances schedules. (FRB Response: December 20, 2017) Q (Y140000707, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Field 33 – Non-Accrual Date instructions require to report nonaccrual date as 9999-12-31 for fully undrawn facilities. But for our books and records purposes the concept of nonaccrual is not just related to interest or funding. From a credit risk perspective, we think the client is troubled and we may not receive all our money in the end, we still have a legal obligation to fund them. This is important from a revolver standpoint because the funding level can change consistently. For example Deal is $100mm unfunded revolver that Credit has put on non-accrual: 3/31/17 reporting: deal is unfunded and shown as on accrual 6/30/17 reporting: deal has funded $10mm during the quarter and now shows non-accrual $10mm funded and $90mm unfunded 9/30/17 reporting: deal is now fully unfunded again so you report $100mm unfunded on accrual Our question is, is FRB expecting us to report the nonaccrual date as 9999-12-31 as long as the revolver undrawn and report the date that revolver put on nonaccrual once it is funded? A: Per the FR Y-14Q instructions for Non-Accrual Date (H.1 – Field 33, H.2 – Field 38), "Report the date the credit facility was placed on non-accrual, if applicable. If a nonaccrual date does not exist, enter 9999-12-31. For fully undrawn commitments, enter 9999-12-31." Continue to follow the FR Y-14Q H.1 and H.2 instructions for Non-Accrual Date (H.1 – Field 33, H.2 – Field 38). (FRB Response: December 20, 2017) Q (Y140000723, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Please clarify the reporting requirements for FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1 – Corporate Loan Data Schedule, field 52 "Date of Financials" and fields 54 through 82 "Client Financials" for clients with less than two years of financial history, and where forward looking projections were used for underwriting, e.g., when the lending is based on cash collateral. Specifically, if a client has less than twelve months of financial history as of the reporting date: What should be reported in field 52? Current financial information is either not available or only available for a period of less than twelve months, and projected twelve months financial information used for underwriting was projected for a date in the future. What should be reported in field 54 requesting current financial data for the trailing twelve months period ended on the date reported in field 52? What should be reported in field 55 requesting financial data for the trailing twelve months period ended one year prior to the date reported in field 52? A: Per a prior question, "if an obligor lacks trailing twelve months of financial information sufficient for Fields 54, 56, 57, 58, 59, and 82, provide the underwritten annual information for Fields 54, 56, 57, 58, 59 and 82, with the ending date indicated in Field 52. Fields 55 and 60 should be reported for the TTM period ended one year prior to the date indicated in Field 52. If an obligor lacks trailing twelve months of financial information sufficient for Fields 55 and 60, provide the underwritten annual information for Fields 55 and 60, with the ending date one year prior to the date indicated in Field 52. Fields 61-81 should reflect financial statement data as of the date reported in Field 52, with the exception of Fields 63, 65, 67, 71, 73, 77, which should reflect financial statements data one prior to the date reported in Field 52." (FRB Response: December 13, 2017) Q (Y140000726, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Please provide clarity when Credit Facility has multiple security types (i.e., Real Estate Only and Unsecured); the Real Estate Only piece is secured by collateral, but the "predominant" aggregate value is Unsecured. Therefore, Security Type (field 36) is reported as "Unsecured" per instruction. Yet, for Collateral Market Value (field 93), the underlying instrument that is secured has collateral market value. Should we report Collateral Market Value (field 93) when the Credit Facility is predominantly Unsecured? A: If Security Type (H.1 Field 36) on the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule is predominantly unsecured, then it is permissible to report "NA" for Collateral Market Value (H.1 Field 93). (FRB Response: December 13, 2017) Q (Y140000703, General): The verbiage in instructions states that any event triggering a change of credit agreement would lead to major modification—such as a change in primary borrower or an increase in commitment. There are instances in which an unscheduled decrease in loan commitment gets prompted either at the behest of the borrower or by the BHC voluntarily (to counter delinquency), but none of these events require a revised execution of credit agreement per BHC's internal policies. Clarification is sought if the aforesaid events (unscheduled commitment decrease) should trigger major modification dates? A: Per the FR Y-14Q H.1 and H.2 instructions for "Origination Date" (H.1 – Field 18, H.2 - Field 10): "The origination date is the contractual date of the credit agreement. (In most cases, this is the date the commitment to lend becomes a legally binding commitment). If there has been a major modification to the loan such that the obligor executes a new or amended and restated credit agreement, use the revised contractual date of the credit agreement as the origination date. The following independent examples would generally not result in a change in the contractual date of the loan, and thus would not be considered major modifications: (1) extension options at the sole discretion of the borrower; (2) covenants; (3) waivers; (4) change in the maturity date; (5) re-pricing; or (6) periodic credit reviews." An increase or decrease in commitment is not considered a major modification independent of other events that would trigger the revised execution of a credit agreement. In the provided example, do not update "Origination Date" (H.1 – Field 18, H.2 – Field 10). (FRB Response: November 22, 2017) Q (Y140000696, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): Should Field 35, Lien Position, in FR Y-14Q, Schedule H.1. – Corporate Loan Data, be reported solely based on the legally documented collateral position, or the collateral value based on credit risk perspective? Background: There are instances where, based on legal agreement, a facility may show that it is secured by collateral. However, from a credit risk perspective the facility will be deemed "unsecured" based on judgment of the value of the collateral. Should we be providing the legally documented lien position or the position per our credit risk view, when the credit risk view is more conservative? The firm is currently reporting Field 35, Lien Position field based on a credit risk view of whether we are secured or unsecured. Until the firm receives a response to the above question we will continue to report based on credit risk view. A: For Lien Position (H.1 Corporate – Field 35), report the legally documented collateral position. (FRB Response: October 11, 2017) Q (Y140000687, H.1 – Corporate Loan Data): FRB instructions state that delinquency status is based on the longest number of days principal and/or interest payments are past due, if such payments are past due 30 days or more. An FAQ was issued in April 16, 2014, which stated if there are different delinquency statuses of loans under a facility, report the longest number of days principal and/or interest payments are past due. If the credit facility has current loan balances which cause an edit check failure because they are not captured in the HC-N delinquency bucket per the instructions on the FR Y-9C, then provide an explanation of the edit failure in the edit check report. This approach, as described in a prior FAQ, can distort the delinquency status of a facility when one loan, comprising a small portion of the facility utilized exposure, becomes past due. Assessing the facility delinquency status based on that loan taints the overall facility delinquency status and results in a variance when the FR Y-14Q is compared to the FR Y-9C. In such cases, is it appropriate to assess delinquency status using criteria based on the loan with the largest outstanding balance? Delinquency status based upon utilized exposure, versus longest number of days past due, provides a more accurate assessment for the facilit y. A: As noted in the prior Q&A, "If there are different delinquency statuses of loans under a facility, report the longest number of days principal and/or interest payments are past due, if such payments are past due 30 days or more, as indicated in the description of field 32 (# Days Principal or Interest Past Due) of the FR Y-14Q Corporate loan schedule. If the credit facility has current loan balances which cause an edit check failure because they are not captured in the HC-N delinquency bucket per the instructions on the FR Y-9C, then provide an explanation of the edit failure in the edit check report." (FRB Response: September 20, 2017) Q (Y140000685, H.2 – Commercial Real Estate): For Capital Expenditures (Corp Loan Field 82), if a cash flow statement that reflects actual capex is not provided by the borrower, what should be reported for Capex? A: Per a prior Q&A: "Obligor financial data in Fields 54 through 82 are mandatory fields for obligors which meet the reporting requirements outlined in the instructions to the FR Y-14Q Corporate loan schedule. If data for mandatory fields is not available, note that in the comments of the edit check report and provide a remediation plan for issue resolution to your Reserve Bank Analyst." (FRB Response: September 13, 2017) Schedule I—MSR Valuation Schedule Q (Y140000894, General): Material portfolios are defined as those with asset balances greater than $5 billion, or asset balances greater than five percent of Tier 1 capital on average for the four quarters preceding the reporting quarter. Schedule I – MSR is below the materiality threshold of $5B based on the asset balance (materiality based on carrying value). Should the balances be reported on Schedule K (Column A – Immaterial Portfolios)? If yes, what are the corresponding reporting line item(s)? A: As MSRs are not among the assets included on Schedule K-Supplemental, immaterial balances (as defined in Schedule I) of MSRs should not be reported on Schedule K (Column A – Immaterial Portfolios). (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Schedule J—Retail Fair Value Option/Held for Sale (FVO/HFS) Q (Y140000681, General): Reverse mortgage GNMA HECM Securities: Borrowers draw on their HECMs and the Bank purchases those draws out of the trust, classifies them as HFS/FVO and subsequently securitizes the draws and issues GNMA HECM securities. These draws are insured by FHA. We do not have a forward contract with GNMA to securitize these draws, nor are we contractually obligated to securitize in a GNMA security; however it is our unilateral practice to do so. 1. Based on the above fact pattern above, which line item should these repurchased subsequent draws be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule J (Retail Fair Value Option/Held for Sale)? 2. Do we consider these new draws repurchases? We aren't repurchasing the issued balance, just the incremental draw. If the draws are considered repurchases, then would we include them on line 2 - as they are insured by FHA? If they are not considered repurchases, should we include in line 3 - 'all other' or do we interpret our practice of securitizing these draws as qualifying for inclusion in line 1? A: Include these loans in Line item 3 – "All Other Residential Loans Not Included Above." (FRB Response: December 26, 2024) Q (Y140001184, General): Schedule J categorizes loans by vintage, which is defined as the calendar year of origination. The Fed has previously clarified that FR Y-14Q reporting on Schedules A and H should reflect a new loan when the requirements of a major modification described in Schedule H instructions have been met. Additionally, the response provided in a prior FAQ states vintage reporting on FR Y-14Q Schedule J should also align with the same major modification requirements. However, the relevant loan population of Schedule J includes loans reportable on the FR Y-14M, which does not contain the same reference as the FR Y-14Q Schedule H regarding major modifications. On the FR Y-14M, the loan closing date, which is defined as the date the loan was originally closed, is stated to determine a loan's vintage. The loan closing date is only updated when a modification results in a new loan number. Please clarify whether vintage reporting on Schedule J should be consistent with the loan closing date field of the FR Y-14M in situations where a modification does not constitute a new loan on the FR Y-14M but equates to a major modification on the FR Y-14Q. For example, a new mortgage is originated in 2008. In 2012, the loan is modified under HAMP establishing a new loan based on the major modification requirements set forth in Schedule H. However, the loan number and other reportable loan data remain the same for FR Y-14M reporting other than denoting the modified terms of the agreement. Accordingly, the FR Y-14M loan closing date reflects 2008 and the last modified date reflects 2012. Should the loan's vintage reportable on FR Y-14Q Schedule J be 2008 or 2012? A: In cases where there is a major modification, record the vintage as the modification date. In your example, the loan's vintage on the Y-14Q schedule would be recorded as 2012. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140000893, General): Material portfolios are defined as those with asset balances greater than $5 billion, or asset balances greater than five percent of Tier 1 capital on average for the four quarters preceding the reporting quarter. Schedule J – Retail FVO/HFS is below the materiality threshold of $5B based on the asset balance (materiality based on carrying value). Should the balances be reported on Schedule K (Column A – Immaterial Portfolios)? If yes, what are the corresponding reporting line item(s)? Given that the Residential HFS/FVO population is reported on the 14M, should this population be reported on 14Q Schedule K? A: Per the instructions, if the balances of immaterial portfolios were included in the FR Y-14Q or FR Y- 14M, then they should not be included in FR Y-14Q, Schedule K (Supplemental), Column A (Immaterial Portfolios). Schedule K references FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C (Loans and Lease Financing Receivables), which includes FVO/HFS loans and leases. Therefore, the non-residential FVO/HFS population should be included in Schedule K in the appropriate sub-item(s) to the extent that it was not reported elsewhere on the FR Y-14Q or FR Y-14M. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Schedule K—Supplemental Q (Y140001430, General): Effective June 30, 2021, the response provided in FAQ Y140001400 requires firms to report PPP Loans only in FR Y-14Q Schedule K - Supplemental. What category and column should PPP loans be reported in Schedule K - Supplemental? Does the FRB expect firms to submit Schedule M - Balances with a reconciling difference with FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C related to PPP Loans? Background: The Firm appreciates the clarification provided in FAQ Y140001400 which permits firms to report all PPP loans in Schedule K beginning FR Y-14Q report for June 30, 2021. The Firm will report all PPP loans in Schedule K in Category "Small Business" within the "Immaterial Other Portfolios" column unless instructed otherwise. This is consistent with the Firm's proposal in FAQ Y140001297 which was submitted in July 2020. According to the FR Y-14Q Schedule M instructions, the balances reported in Schedule M.1 (Quarter-end Balances), should be consistent with the balances reported on Schedule HC-C of the FR Y9C for corresponding line items. In addition, if there are reconciling differences between Schedule M.1 and Schedule HC-C then we should report those differences in Schedule M.2 (FR Y-9C Reconciliation), for the corresponding portfolios. The revision to the PPP loans reporting instructions are not explicit whether PPP loans should be reported in Schedule M. To exclude PPP Loans from Schedules M.1 and M.2, will cause a reconciling break with FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C. The Firm intends to follow FAQ Y140001400, while the Firm will report a reconciling difference related to PPP loans in Schedule M.2 till we hear otherwise from the Fed. A: Firms should report Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans in the applicable category of Schedule K (Supplemental), Column A (Immaterial Portfolios). Firms should exclude PPP loans from Schedule M (Balances). (FRB Response: February 9, 2022) Schedule L—Counterparty Q (Y140001751, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): If a Netting Set is in Firm's CVA scope and included in sub-schedule L.1 with calculated Base or Stress CVA of zero, does that Netting Set need to also be reported in sub-schedules L.2. and L.3? A: The FR Y-14Q Schedule L instructions state that ". . . the firm is allowed to report in L.2-L.3 the exposure information limiting to the legal entities/netting sets for which the firm has a CVA. Once the counterparty legal entities are reported in L.2, they should also be reported in L.3 consistently." Therefore, the firm is not required to report a netting set in L.2 and L.3 if its L.1 unstressed CVA is zero. Similarly, the firm is not required to report a netting set in L.2 and L.3 if its L.1 stressed CVA is zero. However, if the netting set's unstressed or stressed CVA is non-zero, it must be reported in both L.2 and L.3. (FRB Response: February 19, 2026) Q (Y140001737, L.5 – Derivatives and securities financing transactions (SFT) profile: All CCPs and G7 sovereigns + Top 25): In FR Y-14Q Schedule L.5.1, "CDS Hedge Notional" must be "eligible credit derivatives". Can financial guarantees which are not credit default swaps but do meet the requirements of "eligible credit derivatives" be reported in the "CDS Hedge Notional Field"? If not, where should such guarantees, which change credit risk, be reported? A: Financial guarantees that are not credit default swaps (CDS) cannot be reported in the "CDS Hedge Notional" field. According to the FR Y-14Q Schedule L instructions, only CDS hedges that are single-name or non-tranched index credit derivatives for which one of the constituents matches directly to the counterparty legal entity are eligible to be reported as CDS Hedge Notional (CACSR584). The Board will consider adopting changes related to this question in future updates to the FR Y-14 reporting forms. (FRB Response: February 19, 2026) Q (Y140001378, L.5 – Derivatives and securities financing transactions (SFT) profile: All CCPs and G7 sovereigns + Top 25): In the case of tri-party lending, could the Federal Reserve clarify for the field Counterparty Legal Entity Name (CACN9017) whether it should contain both the counterparty legal entity name and the agent lenders name, or just the counterparty name. Noting in such case the agent lender often executes the netting agreement on behalf of the counterparty. A: As noted in the FR Y-14Q instructions, firms should report the unique name of the counterparty legal entity with whom the netting agreement was executed; this name must be alphabetically recognizable rather than an alphanumeric code, and reported consistently across sub-schedules L.1-L.5. In cases of a tri-party repo exposure, it is not a requirement for the firm to disclose the agent lender name when reporting the counterparty name under the "Counterparty Legal Entity Name" field. However, firms would not be prohibited from using a naming convention that contains both the counterparty legal entity name and the agent lender name, and report it accordingly in the "Counterparty Legal Entity Name" field. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001464, General): In certain cases a shelf legal entity issues a series of SPV notes with each series of notes being backed by bankruptcy remote assets specific to that series, i.e. a claim on any single issuance has no access to the assets linked to another issuance. The derivative trades used to hedge the payoff for each note series only have recourse to the bankruptcy remote assets of that issuance, however each series is not a separate legal entity. In this case the only legal entity the firm faces is the shelf and the only Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) is for the shelf. For this situation what rules should apply for the fields Counterparty Legal Entity Name (CACS9017), Counterparty Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) (CACN922), should they be populated with something representing the SPV series (which is not a legal entity), or the counterparty legal entity as the current instructions imply. Similarly in the instructions, Internal Rating (CACNM906), External Rating (CACNM907), CDS Reference Entity Type (CACNR546) and 5Y CDS Spread (bp) (CACNR547) must be consistent for the same counterparty legal entity, so can the FRB specify what should be meant by counterparty legal entity in this context as well. A: According to the Y-14Q Schedule L instructions, all counterparties must have a unique counterparty identifier. For Counterparty Legal Entity Name (CACV9017), firms must report the unique, alphabetically recognizable counterparty legal entity name. For Counterparty Legal Entity Identifier (CACV9224), firms should report the official globally recognized legal entity identifier of the counterparty legal entity. For situations where a shelf legal entity issues a series of SPV notes and the only legal entity the firm faces is the shelf, firms should report the item(s) according to their best understanding of the instructions and applicable fields. Firms may continue to report the shelf legal entity name and identifier for the SPV notes in the same manner as reported in prior quarters. The Federal Reserve will consider adopting additional clarifications related to your question in future updates to the FR Y-14 reporting forms. (FRB Response: February 12, 2026) Q (Y140001290, General): The FRB instructions for L.1-L.5 state that Netting Set ID should map to ISDA master netting agreements. "Netting Set ID (CACVM902) Report the unique identifier (for example, alphanumeric) assigned to the netting set. Netting sets should map to ISDA master netting agreements. If a netting set ID is not applicable (for example, given no netting agreement in place) this field must be populated with "NA". This ID must be unique and consistent across all sub-schedules L.1-L.5." Please clarify if we should only report ISDA agreements or report both ISDA and non-ISDA master netting agreements. A: For the Netting Set ID (CACVM902) field, firms may report a netting set ID that maps to either ISDA or non-ISDA master netting agreements, if either an ISDA or non-ISDA master netting agreement is in place. Note that the question quotes a now-outdated excerpt from the FR Y-14Q instructions. (FRB Response: February 5, 2026) Q (Y140001404, L.5 - Derivatives and securities financing transactions (SFT) profile: All CCPs and G7 sovereigns + Top 25): Given the guidance on L5.1 effective 6/30/21 to report separate lines for each CSA within a netting set, could the FRB confirm for Uncleared Margin Requirement CSAs whether they want the collateral terms for the exchange of Initial Margin to be reported on a separate line, in addition to the collateral terms for the exchange of variation margin, or should only the variation margin collateral terms be reported. A: When a firm elects to report certain margin agreement details at a margin agreement level, the firm is expected to report distinct margin agreements on separate lines. For Uncleared Margin Requirement CSAs, to the extent that there are multiple distinct collateral terms involved, collateral terms pertaining to initial margin should be reported separately from those pertaining to variation margin. Of note, as in the response to Q&A Y140001349, when a firm elects to report certain margin agreement details at a margin agreement level, the firm should continue to report the Net Current Exposure or mark-to-market (MtM) related metrics at the netting set level, to the extent that they are determined at the netting set level, as opposed to the margin agreement level. In this case, those metrics determined at the netting agreement level should be reported only once, and should not be repeated across other records associated with the netting agreement to avoid double counting. (FRB Response: February 5, 2026) Q (Y140001385, L.5 - Derivatives and securities financing transactions (SFT) profile: All CCPs and G7 sovereigns + Top 25): Q (Schedule L - Multiple CSAs): Per the instructions, for cases where there are multiple CSAs for one netting set, the firm may report certain margin agreement details at the margin agreement level. Please confirm that only the margin agreement details listed should be reported at the margin agreement level and that all other details (e.g. Net CE, Gross CE) should only be reported once for the netting set. A: Please see the response to Q&A Y140001349. (FRB Response January 8, 2026) Q (Y140001736, L.5 — Derivatives and securities financing transactions (SFT) profile: All CCPs and G7 sovereigns + Top 25): In the guidance provided for FAQ Y140001381, the firm previously interpreted the guidance to mean in cases where the firm clears for a client at a CCP under the financial intermediary/principal model but does not guarantee the performance of the CCP to the client (i.e. the CCP default risk is passed back to the client and it is considered a "riskless principal"), the firm should not include the CCP- Clearing Member (CM) leg of these trades in CCP exposure reporting. Note the CM-client leg of these trades is reported separately in the schedule. Accordingly, under this interpretation, the treatment of the CM's trade leg to the CCP as part of a riskless principal transaction would be the same as the treatment under the agency model when the CM guarantees the performance of a client to the CCP but does not guarantee the performance of the CCP to the client — the firm would not report exposures to the CCP in either case since it would not guarantee the CCP's performance to the client. Is this interpretation correct? A: The firm's interpretation is correct. For CCP exposure reporting purposes, if the firm does not guarantee the performance of a CCP to a client as part of a riskless principal transaction, the firm should not report exposures to that CCP. (FRB Response: September 25, 2025) Q (Y140001698, General): What is FR Y-14 Q&A #Y140001627, referenced in the proposal to revise the FR Y-14A/Q/M published in the Federal Register on June 21, 2024 (89 FR 52042)? A: FR Y-14 Q&A #Y140001627 reads as follows: "Based on new schedule L instructions, firm would like to confirm reporting process for fair value (FV) SFT. Schedule L submission currently is comprised of both FV and accrual SFTs. This is because Net CE is calculated at counterparty netting agreement level, and it is common for an underlying netting agreement to cover both FV and accrual trades. Exclusion of accrual trades from a netting set distorts (overstates or understates) true net current exposure to a given counterparty. Accordingly, for SFTs, the Stress CVA is calculated and meaningful at netting agreement level with both FV and accrual transactions considered. Firm would like to understand if exclusion of accrual trades is required as part of new instructions considering that it might impact Net CE at netting agreement level. Until the clarification is received for this query, firm will continue to report using the current approach." (FRB Response: September 25, 2024) Q (Y140001647, General): FR Y-14Q Schedule L (Counterparty) report instructions for certain Industry Code related fields note the following "six digit code required for all financial counterparties." Please clarify how firms are expected to identify "financial counterparties" as this term is not clearly defined in the report instructions and existing FAQ responses. For example, should NAICS codes for Insurance Carriers and Related Activities, codes starting with 524 be considered financial counterparties for purposes of the FR-Y14Q Schedule L (Counterparty)? A: For purposes of reporting industry codes in FRY-14Q Schedule L (Counterparty), a "financial counterparty" is a counterparty classified in Sector 52 (Finance and Insurance) of the Census Bureau's North American Industry Classification System. (FRB Response: March 13, 2024) Q (Y140001053, L.5 — Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Question: For data fields that do not specifically indicate population, please designate which agreement population (SFT and/or Derivatives) is applicable. Currently, we interpret that data fields that do not specify are only applicable to the agreement population for the legacy sub-schedules (L.5.1 and L.6.1 prior to convergence effective 3/31/18) from which the data field originated. A: Reporting fields that do not specify an agreement population (SFT and/or Derivatives) apply to both SFTs and Derivatives. (FRB Response: March 13, 2024) Q (Y140001498, General): Topic: Agreement Type (CACNR529) The FR Y-14Q Schedule L includes data field "Agreement Type (CACNR529)" in which a reporting institution must identify, for derivatives, when at least one of the netting sets comprising the counterparty has a legally enforceable collateral agreement. Allowable entries include "Derivatives 2-way SCSA" and "Derivatives 2-way old CSA". However, no further details are provided as to the differentiation between "SCSA" and "old-CSA". With respect to the listed agreements, can the Federal Reserve please clarify expectations regarding reporting Agreement Type as either a Derivatives 2-way SCSA or Derivatives 2-way old CSA? 1994 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Security Interest - New York Law) 1995 ISDA Credit Support Annex (Title Transfer - English Law) 2016 ISDA Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Security Interest - New York Law) with blackline against 1994 form 2016 ISDA Credit Support Annex for Variation Margin (VM) (Title Transfer - English Law) with blackline against 1995 form 2016 ISDA Phase One Credit Support Annex for Initial Margin (IM) (Security Interest - New York Law) with blackline against 1994 form 2016 Phase One IM Credit Support Deed (Security Interest - English Law) with blackline against 1995 form 2018 Credit Support Annex For Initial Margin (IM) (Security Interest - New York Law) 2018 Credit Support Deed For Initial Margin (IM) (Security Interest - English Law) Additionally, if a CSA created with an Old-CSA template above is amended to be economically equivalent to a 2-way SCSA template should SCSA be reported? A: The firm should use their own methodologies and internal risk-management practices for the basis of classifying derivatives as SCSA or Old-CSA and continue to report in the same manner as in prior quarters. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001623, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Regarding FR Y-14Q Schedule L table L.5.3, in cases where the firm has no exposure to counterparties for particular rating buckets, does the firm still need to populate the table rows? This question is asked in the context of an instruction for table L.1.e, which states: "The internal ratings categories reported on L.1.e must be the same as those reported on L.5.3." L.1.e will typically have more rating buckets than L.5.3, so in these cases is the firm required to add rating buckets (with zero exposure) to L.5.3 to make the ratings consistent between the two tables? A: Yes, in cases where the firm has no exposure to counterparties for particular ratings buckets, the firm should still populate the table rows so that the internal ratings categories reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule L.1.e are the same as those reported on L.5.3. Please report zero exposure for the applicable rating buckets to ensure consistency between the two tables. (FRB Response: December 6, 2023) Q (Y140001591, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): For the Non-Cash Collateral Type (CACSR552) field on L.51 should this field pertain to SFTs as well or just for Derivatives? Currently this field is just being used for Derivatives and firm will continue to report with this understanding until a clarification is received for this query. A: The Non-Cash Collateral Type (CACSR552) field on FR Y-14Q Schedule L.5.1 should incorporate both Derivatives and SFTs. (FRB Response: June 21, 2023) Q (Y140001614, General): FAQ Y140001492 provides guidance on the calculation of SFT Net CE in cases where close-out netting can not be enforced. The firm would ask for additional guidance on cases where multiple legs constitute a transaction, such as tri-party repos. An example could be where a single cash leg (posted) would have an MTM value meant to offset the MTM of multiple security legs (received). These types of trades have transaction identifiers linking them together, but the firm would ask for confirmation on whether the guidance in FAQ Y140001492 covers this case, considering the language mentioning "two legs". A: Yes, the guidance in FAQ Y140001492 covers this case. Firms are allowed to net exposure on the legs within the transaction, even if there are more than two legs in the transaction. (FRB Response: May 10, 2023) Q (Y140001595, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): How should banks report instances where under one of their ranking methods they have less than 25 counterparties with positive Net CE. For example, if under method 2 you only have 18 counterparties with positive Net CE, including counterparties already included in method 1, how would you report this? Would you stop reporting at the last remaining positive values or would you list counterparties with zero Net CE to complete the list? If in the case of listing counterparties with zero Net CE to arrive at 25 names how should additional counterparties be selected and how should the rank be reported? A: Firms should report their top counterparties with positive Net CE for each of the ranking methodologies. In instances where there are fewer than 25 counterparties with positive Net CE, do not report additional counterparties with zero Net CE. (FRB Response: March 15, 2023) Q (Y140001589, General): Per the new instructions: For regular/unstressed submissions, counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 should be limited to transactions for which the firm computes CVA for its public financial statement reporting under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or applicable standard. For CCAR/stressed submission, the scope of counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 is expected to be larger and incorporate transactions that would not typically require CVA for public financial statement reporting under GAAP or applicable standard, for example, fully- or over- collateralized derivatives, but which may pose a gap risk to the firm, requiring CVA, should the post-stress value of collateral be insufficient to cover post-stress derivatives exposure. For the Counterparty Schedule L , per the new instruction which states that for CCAR/stressed submission, the scope of counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 is expected to be larger and incorporate transactions that would not typically require CVA for public financial statement reporting. Please specify what additional transactions should be included in L1-L4 sub-schedules? A: The referenced part of the instruction reflects a reporting change that occurred in the past (effective June 30, 2020). Per the FR Y-14Q instructions, the additional scope of counterparty exposures reportable on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 for CCAR/stressed submission are those for which firms would not typically calculate CVA for public financial statement reporting under GAAP or applicable standard. Examples include fully or over-collateralized derivatives. If the firm has further questions about the reportability of other specific exposure types, it may submit Q&As for clarification. (FRB Response: February 15, 2023) Q (Y140001588, General): Regarding the new instruction: All counterparty exposures related to derivatives activities should be included in the universe of transactions applicable for sub-schedules L.1- L.4. All counterparty exposures related to repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending and securities borrowing activities ("SFTs" hereafter) that are fair-valued should be included in the universe of transactions applicable for sub-schedule L.1.e.2 under category b.1, unless they are already captured elsewhere in sub-schedules L.1-L.4. Non-fair valued SFTs should not be included in sub-schedules L.1-L.4. In cases where there are derivatives or fair-valued SFTs for which the exposure to the counterparty is eliminated upon default of the counterparty (for example, a warrant on the counterparty's own equity), these transactions are not considered "counterparty exposures" for the purpose of this schedule and should be excluded from the sub-schedules L.1-L.4. In this case, a supporting documentation must be submitted that provides a high level description of positions that were excluded from reporting. Per new instruction, in cases where there are derivatives or fair-valued SFTs for which the exposure to the counterparty is eliminated upon default of the counterparty (for example, a warrant on the counterparty's own equity), these transactions are not considered "counterparty exposures" for the purpose of this schedule and should be excluded from the sub-schedules L.1-L.4. If these trades are excluded from L1-L4, does it require recalculation of CVA/NetCE/GrossCE values to account for this exclusion? A: The referenced part of new instructions is effective as of June 30, 2023, and does require recalculation of CVA/Net CE/Gross CE values to reflect these exclusions. The firm should not incorporate this reporting change for the Q4:2022 data submission used for the 2023 stress test. (FRB Response: February 8, 2023) Q (Y140001583, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): As it relates to the Federal Reserve's supervisory capital stress test, the February 2022 Stress Test Scenarios document states that for the purposes of the Largest Counterparty Default (LCD) scenario component, certain sovereign entities should be excluded from the selection of a firm's largest counterparty. The excluded sovereign entities are G7 sovereigns: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The Federal Reserve's standardized risk-based capital rules recognize the de-minimis credit risk associated with exposures to certain multilateral development banks (MDBs), as well as certain sovereigns, through assignment of a 0% risk-weight. Accordingly, where the G7 collectively own a significant portion of the voting shares of such low risk MDBs, as delineated below, we believe it is appropriate to exclude these low risk MDBs from the LCD exposures. On this basis, we seek clarification from the Federal Reserve that exposures to the MDBs listed below should also be excluded from the selection of a firm's largest counterparty for the purposes of the LCD scenario component. African Development Bank Asian Development Bank Caribbean Development Bank Council of Europe Development Bank European Bank for Reconstruction and Development European Investment Bank Inter-American Development Bank International Bank for Reconstruction and Development International Finance Corporation Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency A: The Federal Reserve has received your question regarding the treatment of exposures to multilateral development banks in the largest counterparty default (LCPD) scenario component. The exclusion of certain counterparties from the LCPD component is limited to the specific entities enumerated in the annual LCPD letter to subject firms, and the subsidiaries of such entities. Other counterparties may not be excluded, regardless of whether they receive a zero percent risk weight in the capital rule. (FRB Response: January 11, 2023) Q (Y140001581, General): The firm would like to raise the below query regarding non-CCAR (unstressed) quarter, Top 25 non G-7 sovereign/non -CCP/IHC's non-affiliates counterparties reporting: Should the report contain a total of Top 25 counterparty names derived from the cumulative output of ranking methodology 1 and ranking methodology 2? or Should the report contain Top 25 counterparty names derived from Ranking methodology 1 and additional Top 25 counterparty names derived from Ranking methodology 2 which will lead to reporting a total of 50 counterparty names? Until a clarification is received for this query, it is inferred from the new instructions, that the Top 25 non G-7 sovereign/non -CCP/IHC's non-affiliates counterparties list report will be generated using the Top 25 counterparty names derived from the cumulative output of the ranking methodology 1 and ranking methodology 2 and a total of Top 25 names will be reported. A: Effective in Q2:2023, firms are required to report two sets of top 25 counterparties for the non-CCAR (unstressed) quarter, using each of ranking methodology 1 and 2 separately. If a counterparty is captured in both ranking methodologies (1 & 2), the information for that counterparty must only be reported once, under the ranking methodology 1. (FRB Response: December 7, 2022) Q (Y140001200, General): Firms can have commitments that are unrelated to the extension of loans. For instance, the commitments could be related to the purchase of securities or other financial assets, to extensions in the form of securities resale agreements (i.e., reverse repos), or to loss sharing arrangements related to assets sold with recourse. One such commitment is related to the Capped Contingency Liquidity Facility (CCLF) described below. We would like to know how firms should report these types of commitments on the FR Y-14Q. Our questions are as follows: Are these types of non-loan related commitments reportable on Schedule H.1 (Corporate Loans)? If not, where should they be reported on the FR Y-14Q? If reportable on Schedule H.1., what maturity date should be reported in Field 19 (Maturity Date) when the commitments have no maturity date? For example, the CCLF described below is a membership requirement that will not expire if the member firm continues its membership at FICC. Should the Maturity Date field be reported blank or populated with 9999-01-01? Capped Contingency Liquidity Facility (CCLF) details: In the case of an extreme failure of a firm involved in mortgage-backed securities transactions, the FICC (subsidiary of the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation), would have a series of open delivery obligations to the failed firm that would be offset by receives from other solvent firms. To meet that liquidity demand in an extreme situation, the FICC would advise all the solvent members with open transactions that offset deliveries to the insolvent firm that they are expected to invoke the liquidity facility to fund those open offsetting transactions. The FICC would then create overnight transactions to the securities (i.e., the facility would be drawn in the form of reverse repo transactions). These "repo" transactions would be between FICC and each solvent firm equal to the amount of that firm's open offsetting transactions. Then, the funding for all of those open transactions can and would be distributed across the FICC membership and would not be dependent on dedicated liquidity resources. In other words, FICC as a central counterparty would not have to obtain committed long-term liquidity resources sized to handle these extreme situations. The liquidity would be borne by FICC member firms at the time of need. FICC could then unwind the repo transactions over a short period of days concurrently with the liquidation of the actual position. A specific cap has been put in place so that firms will know there's a definite ceiling to the amount of liquidity they might be expected to provide in the case of a firm failure. This cap resets on a semi-annual basis (January & July). Instructions - Field 19 - Maturity Date Report the maturity date. The maturity date is the last date upon which the funds must be repaid, inclusive of extension options that are solely at the borrower's discretion, and according to the most recent terms of the credit agreement. If extension options are conditional on certain terms being met, such extensions should be considered to be at the sole discretion of the borrower only when such conditions are in compliance with the credit agreement. For demand loan, enter '9999-01-01'.For corporate loans in the syndicated pipeline, until the syndicated loan is reported as closed and settled (option4 in Field 100), report the estimated maturity date based on the tenor stated in the commitment letter. For commitments to commit which are not syndicated, report the estimated maturity date based on the tenor in the terms extended to the borrower. A: The firm's exposures to central counterparties (CCPs) arising from its commitment to Capped Contingency Liquidity Facility (CCLF) in the form of repo-style transactions are reportable in FR Y-14Q Schedule L (Counterparty), only in the event that a member defaults and CCLF is exercised by the CCP and that a firm is called upon to enter into repo-style transactions. These exposures should be incorporated in the Counterparty schedule, as if they are any other securities financing transactions currently reportable in the Counterparty schedule. (FRB Response: November 16, 2022) Q (Y140001388, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Q (CSA in place - field (CACVM922)) How should the firm respond for cases where a unilateral CSA exists where the firm posts collateral to the counterparty, but the counterparty does not post collateral to the firm (i.e. the CSA provides no credit mitigation benefit to the firm)? Similarly, for the "CSA contractual features (non-vanilla)" field (CACSR560), should the firm only list features from the firm's perspective (e.g. if a downgrade trigger only exists for the counterparty's benefit, but there is no downgrade trigger for the firm's benefit. Should the firm populate "Downgrade Trigger" or not) ? A: For purposes of reporting "Credit Support Annex (CSA) in place?" in sub-schedule L.1, a reporting firm should account for any legally enforceable collateral agreement, regardless of whether the counterparty posts collateral to the reporting firm. Similarly, for "CSA contractual features (non-vanilla)" in sub-schedule L.5.1, the reporting firm should report all non-vanilla contractual features, regardless of whether the feature is for the reporting firm's benefit. (FRB Response: November 3, 2022) Q (Y140001530, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): We are seeking clarification on the new requirement for counterparty sub-schedule L.5 with respect to reporting on intermediate holding company's (IHC) affiliates. In particular, we would like to know whether this requirement applies to only US IHC's of foreign banking organizations (FBOs), or does it apply to all banks that are required to submit schedule L.5? A: The reporting requirements on sub-schedules L.1-L.5 as they relate to IHCs' affiliate counterparties apply only to US IHCs of foreign banking organizations. See subsection "Sub-Schedule L.1-L.5" under the "Counterparty Exposure Universe" section of the general instructions for Schedule L (Counterparty). (FRB Response: June 22, 2022) Q (Y140001525, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Questions: (1) In FR Y-14Q Schedule L.5.1, how should the Firm categorize the exposure to the Central Clearing Counterparty (CCP) in the following two types of client-cleared derivative transactions in the "Agreement Role" MDRM (CACNR530)? a) Riskless Principal (a back-to-back derivative), in which the firm is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of the client and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP or an exchange - Should the CCP exposure be categorized in "Agreement Role" as 'NA'? b) Agency Cleared (a guaranteed derivative), in which the firm is a clearing member of a CCP or an exchange and guarantees the client's performance to a CCP or an exchange - Should the CCP exposure be categorized in "Agreement Role" as 'NA'? (2) Please confirm that CCP exposures for both house and client cleared derivatives should be reported the same way and that both are excluded from the FRB's supervisory stress scenario calculations. A: 1. For derivatives, a firm should report “NA” for the Agreement Role field, for either direct or indirect credit exposures to a CCP. However, in cases where the firm is a clearing member of a CCP or an exchange and guarantees the client's performance to a CCP or an exchange, thus the firm has an indirect credit exposure to a client (not to a CCP or an exchange), the firm should report client for the counterparty and “Agent” for the Agreement Role. 2. As for the firm's derivatives exposures to a CCP, there is no separate reporting requirement in between house and client cleared derivative exposures. CCPs will continue to get excluded from the selection of a firm's largest counterparty under the largest counterparty default component. (FRB Response: March 30, 2022) Q (Y140001524, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): We request clarification on whether to include client-cleared derivatives in the following MDRMs that are used to report Stressed Net Counterparty Exposure - CACNR536 and CACSR564 -in FR Y-14Q, Schedule L.5.1. A: As indicated in Q&A Y140001447, client-cleared derivatives must be reported in the stressed data submission (i.e., Total Stressed Net Current Exposure (CACNR536) and Stressed Net Current Exposure Derivatives (CACSR564) in sub-schedule L.5.1). As noted in the September 2020 final Federal Register notice to revise the FR Y-14A/Q/M, the data collection associated with client-cleared derivatives are for monitoring purposes, and not for use in the stress test at this time. The FRB's monitoring includes both unstressed and stressed exposure data, and the submission of stressed data is a reporting requirement as of 4Q21. (FRB Response: March 30, 2022) Q (Y140001401, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): The latest 6/30 instructions for field 'CDS Hedge Notional (CACSR584)' indicate that hedges should only be reported for exactly matching legal entities, however, for many institutions the main debt issuing entity will be the entity with available CDS which may not be the same entity the firm faces. This is particularly the case for banks where the CDS references the Bank Holding company but the derivatives face the underlying bank or broker dealer entities. For such cases should a firm not report these hedges, or should they add an extra line in schedule L5.1 to represent the CDS hedge, reporting only fields relevant to the issuer and the CDS hedge? A: When reporting “CDS Hedge Notional (CACSR584)” in sub-schedule L.5.1, the firm should only include the case in which CDS reference entity matches directly to the counterparty legal entity, to be consistent with the FR Y-14Q instructions. Note that this is also consistent with the rules of recognition set forth in section .36 of 12 C.F.R. § 217, where the reference exposure and the hedged exposure must be to the same legal entity in order to get qualified as an eligible credit derivative. (FRB Response: March 23, 2022) Q (Y140001492, General): For the calculation of net exposure for SFT trades where the firm has a close-out enforceability legal opinion for overnight trades with a central bank but there is no master agreement with the central bank, could the FRB confirm that as per the positive legal opinion, the exposure on the legs within a single trade should net but there should be no netting across trades? A: If a firm does not have a close-out netting agreement with a counterparty on its SFT portfolio, the firm is not allowed to take a netting benefit across transactions, whilst the two legs within a single transaction may be offset to each other, when calculating net current exposure. (FRB Response: February 9, 2022) Q (Y140001503, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): The instructions and FAQ Y140001384 state to include client clearing exposure for non-CCP counterparties under L5 (but exclude these from the top 25 ranking). Given the instructions and FAQ only state L5, can you please confirm if these trades and exposures should also be included in L1 sub-schedules? A: As in p. 268 of the instructions, all counterparty exposures related to derivatives activities should be included in the universe of transactions applicable for sub-schedules L.1-L.4. This includes a firm's direct credit exposure to a client on a back-to-back derivative transaction that arises when the firm is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of the client and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP or an exchange. In this case, a firm should report its direct credit exposure in L.1-L.4 for regular/unstressed submission, insofar as the firm computes CVA for its public financial statement reporting under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or applicable standard. For CCAR/stressed submission, these exposures are expected to be reported in L.1-L.4 irrespective of the firm's BAU/accounting practice relevant to public financial statement reporting, to be consistent with p. 268 of the instructions. This compares with a firm's indirect credit exposure to a client on a guaranteed derivative, that arises when the firm guarantees the client's performance to a CCP or an exchange. In this case, a firm is not required to report the exposures in sub-schedules L.1-L.4, to the extent that guarantee is not subject to fair value. (FRB Response: January 26, 2022) Q (Y140001447, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): For FR Y-14Q Schedule L.5.1 reporting, should current exposures associated with client-cleared derivatives be included in the calculation for Line Item "Total Net CE" (MDRM:Unstressed - CACNR550)? Background: The Board's Final Notice relating to the March 2020 proposal by the Board to revise the FR Y-14A/Q/M reports (Final Notice), indicated that client cleared derivatives exposures will only be used for monitoring purposes and not used in stress tests. Given this clarification, the Firm will not include these exposures in Schedule L.5.1 Line Item Total Stressed Net Current Exposure (MDRM: Severely Adverse - CACNR536). However, under current practice, the population of exposures that are included in this MDRM is consistent with the population of exposures that are included in Total Unstressed Net CE - CACNR550. Therefore, if we include client-cleared derivative net current exposures in CACNR550 but they shouldn't be reported in CACNR536, that would misalign the two MDRMs. In addition, reporting a higher balance in Line Item Total Unstressed Net CE as compared to Line Item Total Stressed Net Current Exposure will be an illogical submission. In addition: Per FRB's response provided in FAQ Y140001384, a firm should exclude client cleared derivatives for purposes of ranking top 25 counterparties for FR Y-14Q Schedule L.5 reporting. Therefore, the inclusion of client cleared derivative exposure in Line Item Total Unstressed Net CE would be inconsistent with how the ranking methodology is calculated. Currently, for ranking methodology, counterparties with the highest Total Net CE correspondingly rank as highest members for ranking top 25 counterparties. The inclusion of client-cleared derivatives in Line Item Total Unstressed Net CE would cause an inconsistency in the approach for determining the ranking of counterparties and the reported Total Unstressed Net CE. Furthermore, in a back-to-back derivative, if the client doesn't rank amongst the top 25 counterparties and the Firm only reports the exposure to the CCP but not the offsetting exposure to the client in the Line Item Total Unstressed Net CE then that would result in an inaccurate depiction of the Firms' exposures to CCPs. After considering all these factors, the Firm will not include client-cleared derivative exposures in Schedule L.5.1 Line Item Total Unstressed Net CE unless instructed otherwise by the FRB. A: A firm is required to incorporate client cleared derivatives in Net CE fields, including Total Net CE (CACNR550), Total Stressed Net CE (CACNR536), Net CE Derivatives (CACSJF40), and Stressed Net CE Derivatives (CACSR564). In doing so, the firm should report "Agreement Role (CACNR530)" in a manner consistent with the FR Y-14Q instructions so that client cleared derivatives are distinguished from non-client cleared derivatives. The firm should also refer to the answer to FAQ Y140001384 for determining the ranking of top 25 counterparties for both non-CCAR (unstressed) and CCAR (stressed) quarters. (FRB Response: August 11, 2021) Q (Y140001349, General): Schedule L revised instructions effective for the reporting period as of June 30, 2021, emphasizes that in cases where there exist multiple CSAs with different contractual features per netting agreement, the reporting institution may report certain margin agreement details at a margin agreement level. Other data fields appear to be more appropriately reported at the netting set level, such as Current Exposure metrics where trades can be netted across the master netting agreement despite having different CSAs, and Mark-to-Market where the same transaction could have an Initial Margin CSA and a separate and distinct Variation Margin CSA. If a reporting institution implements the new reporting guidance and begins to report at a margin agreement level, what is the appropriate reporting representation desired by the FRB in circumstances where a data field is determined at the netting set level rather than the margin agreement level? Should attributes more appropriately reported at the netting agreement level be populated once and left blank for other records to avoid duplication/potential double counting? For example, if a reporting institution has trades with major dealers that fall under the new Initial Margin rules, new trades fall under IM and VM CSAs (2 CSAs) and legacy trades fall under a different CSA. In this instance, how should a trade's MTM be reported when it could hit two line items or how should Net CE be reported when it could apply across three lines (IM, VM, Legacy CSA)? If firm's do not elect to report at the margin agreement level, how should attributes such as Minimum Transfer Amounts across multiple CSAs be collapsed into a single line item for reporting (would an aggregate transformation such as Maximum be appropriate)? A: When the firm elects to report certain margin agreement details at a margin agreement level, as instructed in new reporting guidance effective of June 30, 2021 (concerning the cases in which there are multiple credit support annexes (CSAs) with different contractual features for a given netting agreement as referenced in the firm question), the firm is expected to continue to report the Net Current Exposure or mark-to-market (MtM) related metrics at the netting set level, to the extent that they are determined at the netting set level, as opposed to the margin agreement level. In this case, those metrics determined at the netting agreement level should be reported only once and should not be repeated across other records associated with the netting agreement to avoid double counting. If the firm elects to report at the netting agreement level instead, by collapsing the CSAs (Y or N) to the respective reporting line item for the counterparty by legal enforceability, the firm is expected to report margin agreement details that are deemed most representative across multiple CSAs. The firm may use the Net Current Exposure for unstressed/non-CCAR quarter data submission, and Stressed Net Current Exposure for stressed/CCAR quarter data submission for purposes of determining the most representative margin agreement so that the relevant margin details can be reported accordingly. (FRB Response: June 23, 2021) Q (Y140001384, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L.5.1 - Total Stressed Net Current Exposure (Net CE) (Severely Adverse - CACNR536); Total Net Current Exposure (Net CE) (Unstressed - CACNR550)): Can the federal reserve confirm whether the stressed version of the 14Q used for CCAR loss estimation will include stressed exposures to client cleared derivatives, and if so can the federal reserve elaborate on whether the counterparty consolidated aggregate fields such as Total Stressed Net Current Exposure (Net CE) (Severely Adverse - CACNR536) should include this exposure as of this time cleared derivatives are out of scope for the Supervisory Severely Adverse scenario. With the inclusion of client cleared derivatives in the L5 schedule, could the FRB advise if unstressed Net CE for client cleared exposures should contribute to the top 25 ranking of consolidated counterparties in the L.5.1 schedule (Unstressed)? A: A firm should exclude client cleared derivatives for purposes of ranking top 25 amongst non G-7 sovereigns, non CCPs, and IHC's non-affiliates counterparties for both non-CCAR (unstressed) and as-of-CCAR (stressed) quarters. However, once the top 25 counterparties are identified, a firm should incorporate all the relevant client cleared derivatives associated with those counterparties for purposes of reporting all the required data in L.5.1 and L.5.4. (FRB Response: May 26, 2021) Q (Y140001379, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L.5.1 - CSA contractual features (non-vanilla) (CACSR560)): Could the Federal Reserve confirm the CSA contractual features field only applies for bilateral OTC derivatives? A: The "CSA contractual features (non-vanilla)" data field in sub-schedule L.5.1 is applicable to bilateral OTC derivatives for which the CSA contains non-vanilla contractual features. The field should be left blank for all derivatives for which the CSA does not contain these features, including centrally cleared derivatives. (FRB Response: May 26, 2021) Q (Y140001383, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L - Netting Set ID (CACNM902)): In the general instructions for L.5, the FRB states [For positions with no legal agreement, mark-to-market amounts can be aggregated and reported as a single record and must reflect actual mark-to-market amounts. The aggregated record must have the item LegalEnforceability reported as "N" and Netting Set ID should be reported as "None". In the more specific instructions for L.5.1 for CACNM902, the instructions note [If a netting set ID is not applicable then this field must be populated with "NA"]. Could the FRB provide clarity on situations where "NA" would be used instead of "None"? A: In cases where no bilateral close-out netting agreement exists, a firm must report "NA" for Netting Set ID to be consistent with the specific instructions for L.5.1, item CACNM902. (FRB Response: May 19, 2021) Q (Y140001382, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L.5.1 Agreement Role (CACNR530), Relevant QA (Y140001003): In a previous QA, the FRB clarified the usage for "Client" under "Agreement Role" for SFTs to be used when another agent acts on behalf of the reporting firm. In Tri-party lending, the reporting firm faces an agent who acts on behalf of principal counterparties from which securities are borrowed/lent, the actual execution of trades between the reporting firm and the principal counterparties is performed by the agent, however, the netting agreement is between the reporting firm and the agent, and the reporting firm controls which securities that are borrowed and lent in aggregate. Could the FRB confirm that in this case whether the agreement role should be principal or client? A: For purposes of reporting "Agreement Role" for tri-party lending, if there is a netting agreement between the reporting firm and the agent whereby the reporting firm controls the types of securities that are borrowed or lent, a firm should report "Principal" when the firm faces an agent. (FRB Response: May 19, 2021) Q (Y140001380, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L.5.1 - Total Unstressed Mark-to-Market Collateral (Derivatives) (CACSR575)): Could the Federal Reserve confirm that the reference to 'eligible financial collateral' in field 'Total Unstressed Mark-to-Market Collateral (Derivatives) (CACSR575)' refers only to the restriction the collateral must be eligible to be posted under the CSA? A: Please see the response to Q&A Y140001155. (FRB Response: May 12, 2021) Q (Y140001155, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Schedule L.5.1 collects data on derivative and securities financing transactions. The instructions for Column CACSR575 for Total Unstressed Mark-to-Market Collateral state, "all collateral reported should be eligible financial collateral". Eligible financial collateral is an undefined term in report instructions. Can you provide guidance as to what constitutes eligible financial collateral for Schedule L reporting? Does the term refer to all collateral included in the Credit Support Annex, collateral that meets the definition of Financial Collateral in the Capital rule, or some other set of collateral? A: Eligible financial collateral refers to collateral under the CSA agreement that meets the definition of financial collateral in the capital rule (see 12 C.F.R. 217.2). (FRB Response: May 12, 2021) Q (Y140001386, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L.5.1 – Stressed Mark-to-Market Received (SFTs) (Severely Adverse - CACNR542)): The instructions for this field state "The gross cumulative MtM values using full revaluation under each supervisory global market shock scenario of the cash and assets reported in the mark-to-market Received column." Separately, in the general instructions for schedule L5, the guidance states: "Reported mark-to-market amounts must reflect the positive or negative contribution to exposure upon counterparty default and close-out netting. For example, if margin or collateral is posted to a counterparty, this would be reported as a positive amount and if collateral is received from a counterparty, this would be reported a negative amount. In the case of netting collateral posted against collateral received, net posted positions would be reported as a positive amount and net received positions would be reported as a negative amount. Similarly, if a position has positive mark-to-market value from the perspective of the respondent, the mark-to-market value would be reported as positive and reflected as positive when performing netting computations against negative mark-to-market positions. Additionally, purchased single-name CDS hedge notional amounts must be reflected as negative, and sold single-name CDS exposure must be reflected as positive." Considering that SFT MTM Received fields in L5 are reported as gross amounts, could the FRB confirm that the general instruction, which includes reporting negative amounts, refers to Derivatives only? Additionally, for SFT in cases where close-out netting is not enforceable should SFT MTM Received be reported as zero? A: Both "Stressed Mark-to-Market Received (SFTs)" and "Stressed Mark-to-Market Posted (SFTs)" in sub-schedules L.5.1 and L.5.2 must be reported in a positive amount, as must "Unstressed Mark-to-Market Posted (SFTs)" and "Unstressed Mark-to-Market Received (SFTs)." The general instructions for the sub-schedule L.5 (Derivatives and SFT Profile) cited by the firm are relevant to Derivatives only, for which a firm would report either positive or negative amount based on the results of the applicable netting. In cases where close-out netting is not enforceable so that SFT MtM Received cannot be netted against the amount of SFT MtM posted when computing the net current exposure, a firm must report zero for SFT MtM Received. (FRB Response: April 28, 2021) Q (Y140001381, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Q (Schedule L – Inclusion of Client Clearing in L.5): In cases where the firms clear for a client at a CCP by the financial intermediary/principle model but does not guarantee the performance of the CCP to the client, do firms need to report client exposures to CCPs as part of the central counterparty reporting? In this case the counterparty risk is no different from the agency model when the CCP performance is not guaranteed to the client, and such exposures need not be reported. A: In cases where a firm serves as a clearing member of a CCP, the client-originated exposures to the CCP should be part of the central counterparty reporting in schedule L.5, either in the case where the firm is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a client and enters into an offsetting transaction with the CCP or in the case where the firm guarantees the performance of the CCP to the client. In the case where the firm does not enter into an offsetting transaction with the CCP or guarantee the CCP performance to the client, such exposures should be excluded. (FRB Response: April 21, 2021) Q (Y140001356, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Question on Sub-Schedule L5 – The firm's understanding is that the FRB instructions should be interpreted to mean all active agreements under the top consolidated counterparties be reported in schedule L5, including agreements that do not contain trades on the as-of reporting date, and hence would have no counterparty credit risk on that day. Does this interpretation of these instructions also apply to schedules L1-L4? A: For purposes of reporting exposures across sub-schedules L.1-L.5, firms are not required to include the active agreements that do not have actual trades on the as-of reporting date. (FRB Response: April 21, 2021) Q (Y140001180, General): 3) For schedules L.1-3: If a Consolidated/Parent Counterparty is selected as a top name, all counterparties/legal entities should be included and reported or only if they have a CVA associated with them? If the latter then the calculated total group exposure can be different in sub-schedule 1 and sub-schedule 5. Page 294 of instructions effective June 30, 2020 are as follows Sub-Schedules L.1 – L.4 All counterparty exposures related to derivatives activities should be included in the universe of transactions applicable for sub-schedules L.1 – L.4. For regular/unstressed submissions, counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 should be limited to transactions for which the firm computes CVA for its public financial statement reporting under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or applicable standard. A: If a Consolidated/Parent Counterparty is selected as a top name, the firm's derivatives exposures to all the counterparties/legal entities associated with the consolidated/parent counterparty should be included and reported in L.1-3. Please see the response to Q&A Y140001190 and Y140001264 for additional guidance. (FRB Response: November 25, 2020) Q (Y140001234, L.5– Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Based on the "Rank Methodology (CACNJD60)" column instruction for 5.1 allowable entries are QCCP, NQCCP and G7. However in the Counter-party form entries are 1, QCCP, NQCCP and G7. How should we report the Top 25 non G-7/non CCP counter-parties – as Rank Methodology 1 or as Rank Methodology NQCCP? A: Firms should indicate NA when reporting the Rank Methodology for the Top 25 counterparties that are not QCCP, NQCCP, or G7. Additionally, for IHCs, should their affiliate counterparties be included in the Top 25, the firm should report AF under the Rank Methodology. Note that the instructions will be clarified as part of changes that have been finalized and will be effective in the second quarter of 2021. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001264, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Page 294 of the FR Y-14Q instructions clearly states that all derivatives activity should be included in L.1-4 and that all derivatives and SFT activity should be included in L.5. The instructions specifically state that SFT transitions should be included in L.1.e.2. It is the Bank's interpretation that this means that SFT exposures should not be included in L.1a-d, L.2, L.3 or L.4, and should only be reported in L.1.e.2 and L.5. This contradicts the answer to question Y140001190 which states that the exposure to a counterparty shown on L.1a should match L.5. Please confirm whether SFT exposures should be included in tabs L.1-4. And if so, please advise about how we should address in L.2 and L.3 SFT netting sets that don't generate baseline CVA. A: With respect to CVA reporting, SFT exposures should only be reported in L.1.e.2 and L.5; and not be included in L.1.a-d, L.2, L.3 or L.4. Q&A Y140001190 provided clarifications regarding the reporting of derivatives. In particular, Net CE in L.1 should match Net CE Derivatives in L.5.1. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001314, General): Q&A 2: We would like to request clarification on the response to the FAQ Y140001182. The instructions do not specify if the regional breakdown should be based on the country of risk or the country of domicile. Since we report the country of risk in other sub-schedules, should the region be consistent with other sub-schedules and based on country of risk as well? A: As in Q&A Y140001212 and Q&A Y140001182, the firm should use the counterparty's domicile for purposes of determining regional grouping in Schedule L (Counterparty). In doing so, the firm should use the region that the country belongs to geographically. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001280, General): As the SFT portfolio in AH LLC does not attract CVA for public financial statement reporting, we do not intend to report SFT CVA in the unstressed submission. However, for the stressed submission, should fair-valued SFT CVA be populated throughout schedules L1-L4 or only in L1e2b1 as the unstressed instructions state? Is the following statement on page 295 only relevant for derivatives products or does it apply to SFTs? "For CCAR/stressed submission, the scope of counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 is expected to be larger and incorporate transactions that would not typically require CVA for public financial statement reporting under GAAP or applicable standard, for example, fully- or over-collateralized derivatives, but which may pose a gap risk to the firm, requiring CVA, should the post-stress value of collateral be insufficient to cover post-stress derivatives exposure." A: As provided for in the instructions to the FR Y-14Q, fair-valued SFTs that do not attract CVA for public financial statement reporting under GAAP or applicable standard are not required to be reported in the unstressed submission throughout sub-schedules L.1-L.4, but should be included in the stressed submission. In addition, consistent with the instructions to the FR Y-14Q, stressed values associated with fair-valued SFTs should be reported only in L.1.e.2.b.1 (fair-valued SFT). (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001169, General): In order to ensure we meet the 2Q2020 deliverable for the counterparty schedule we need some assistance with the following. We will need to spec out the changes and begin the technology build within the next 2-4 weeks, would it be possible for the FRB to have a call with us to discuss the following: What is expected to be reported in schedule L.1.f? The firm only has CVA under stress, it does not have firm CVA. We would like confirmation that all schedules in L.1 are for CVAonly and therefore the firm would not report. IF L.1.f is required for the firm to submit how should counterparties be reported? Is it 1 counterparty by line or are all counterparties in an industry code summarized and reported in one line? For schedule L.5.3 the FRB is requesting the external rating NOT the external rating equivalent of the internal rating. Why is the external rating being used? L.2, L.3 and L.4- as the firm has no firm CVA, we believe these schedules would not be submitted but we would like FRB confirmation. Would Wrong Way Risk or Stressed CVA be reported? Instructions contradict themselves a bit between pages 294 and 303 of the greenline. A: Per the revised instruction page 261, for regular/unstressed submissions, counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 (including L.1.f) should be limited to the transactions for which the firm computes CVA for its public financial statement reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or applicable standard. This compares with the CCAR/stressed submission in which the scope of counterparty exposures on sub-schedules L.1-L.4 is expected to be larger and incorporates transactions that would not typically require CVA for public financial statement reporting under GAAP or applicable standard, for example, fully- or over-collateralized derivatives, but which may pose a gap risk to the firm, requiring CVA, should the post-stress value of collateral be insufficient to cover post-stress derivatives exposure. For the purpose of reporting in sub-schedule L.1.f in CCAR/stressed quarter, the firm should group residual counterparty exposures not already reported on sub-schedules L.1.a or L.1.b, by collateralization, industry, region, and ratings categories, as opposed to reporting at a counterparty-by-counterparty level. For sub-schedule L.5.3, the firm should report external rating equivalent to internal rating as reported in CACNM906. Note that the instructions will be clarified as part of changes that have been finalized and will be effective in the second quarter of 2021. As for the wrong-way risk, to the extent that the firm accounts for wrong-way risk for its regular CVA estimation process (stressed or unstressed), the relevant CVA amount should be reported either on sub-schedule L.1.a or L.1.b. If the firm accounts for wrong-way risk via additional/offline reserves, the relevant exposure amount should be reported on sub-schedule L.1.e under the appropriate sub-category as described in the instructions. (FRB Response: November 18, 2020) Q (Y140001329, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): For Counterparty, Schedule L, sub-schedule L.1.E (offline CVA reserves), the FRB's instructions require reporting of Gross CE and Net CE of Fair Value (FV) SFTs. Will the FRB allow BHCs to report all SFTs (FV and amortized cost) in the Counterparty Risk Submission? Internal risk management practice and internal CCR reporting for SFTs do not make a distinction between FV and amortized cost positions as this is not meaningful at an agreement level. Because Net CE is determined at agreement level and positions covered by a single agreement may include both FV and amortized cost (AC) positions, a simple segmentation between FV and AC positions will distort the true Net CE estimate (exposure at risk) for the agreement. We respectfully request clarification on the reporting of all SFTs for Q3 2020. A: To the extent that fair-valued SFTs are not distinguished from SFTs of amortized cost in the firm's internal system, the firm may combine both types of SFTs for purposes of reporting Net CE in sub-schedule L.1.e (Aggregate CVA data by ratings and collateralization). As for the Gross CE reporting expectation, please see the response to Q&A Y140001279. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140001279, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Fair valued SFTs are in scope of sub-schedules that ask for Gross Current Exposure. The definition of Gross CE on pages 299, 300 is specific to derivatives and defined as pre-collateral after counterparty netting. Should Gross CE for SFTs be reported and how should that measure be defined? "Report Gross CE, which is defined as pre-collateral exposure after bilateral counterparty netting. Sometimes referred to as the replacement cost or current credit exposure, Gross CE is the fair value of a derivative contract when that fair value is positive. Gross CE is zero when the fair value is negative or zero. For purposes of this schedule, Gross CE to an individual counterparty should be derived as follows:Determine whether a legally enforceable bilateral netting agreement is in place between the BHC or IHC or SLHC and the counterparty. If such an agreement is in place, the fair values of all applicable derivative contracts with that counterparty that are included in the scope of the netting agreement are netted to a single amount, which may be positive, negative, or zero. Report Gross CE when the fair value is positive, report it as a zero when the fair value is negative or zero." A: Gross CE data field in sub-schedule L.1 (Derivatives profile by counterparty and aggregate across all counterparties) is only relevant to derivatives transactions. This should be left blank for fair-valued SFTs. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140001149, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Upon review of the FRB's response to FAQ Y140001013, we would like to clarify the applicability of the below highlighted text. (****because text can't be highlighted in Q&A format, I've surrounded the highlighted texts with **** ... **** below) FRB Answer – The firm's interpretation is correct. Specifically, a firm should apply two ranking methodologies for stressed data submission of sub-schedule L.5. By doing so, the firm should determine the top 25 counterparties based on Total Stressed Net CE (Severely Adverse – CACNR536 for ranking methodology 1; ****and Adverse – CACNR537 for ranking methodology**** 2) as defined in the latest 14Q instruction. Total Stressed Net CE should capture all exposures (both SFTs and derivatives including any trades subject to cross product netting cutting across SFTs and derivatives) to a consolidated/parent counterparty after applying instantaneous global market shock; and should be reported once at the legal entity level. This item should not be repeated across Netting Set IDs associated with the legal entity. Based upon the Oct 10th 2019 Final Tailoring Rule Notice (link below), Pages 7 and 111 cite the removal of the "Adverse" scenario (excerpts are included below). Could the FRB please confirm if our interpretation of the Final Tailoring Rule is correct and that the "Adverse" scenario was removed from the required list of stress test scenarios? If it is confirmed, can the FRB kindly confirm that the above highlighted verbiage response is not applicable? Thank you. Excerpt from Page 7: In connection with a proposal on which the Board sought comment in January 2019, and consistent with EGRRCPA, this final rule also revises the minimum asset threshold for state member banks to conduct stress tests, revises the frequency by which state member banks would be required to conduct stress tests, **** and removes the adverse scenario from the list of required scenarios in the Board's stress test rules. **** Excerpt from Page 111: C. Removal of "Adverse" Scenario As adopted, the Board's stress testing requirements, which are applicable to state member banks, savings and loan holding companies, bank holding companies, U.S. intermediate holding companies of foreign banking organizations, and any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board-required the inclusion of an "adverse" scenario in the stress test. **** Section 401 of EGRRCPA amends section 165(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act to no longer require the Board to include an "adverse" scenario in the company-run stress test or its supervisory stress tests, reducing the number of required stress test scenarios from three to two.**** The stress testing proposal would have removed the "adverse" scenario from the list of required scenarios in the Board's stress testing rules. In addition, the proposal would have made conforming changes to Page 112 of 366 the Board's Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing to reflect the removal of the adverse scenario. Link to the Final Tailoring Rule Notice: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/boardmeetings/files/tailoring-rule-fr-notice-20191010a2.pdf A: In light of the Final Tailoring Rule, the Board has revised sub-schedule L.5.1 (Derivative and SFT information by counterparty legal entity and netting set/agreement) so that a firm should apply only one ranking methodology for stressed data submission, based on Total Stressed Net CE under the Federal Reserve Severely Adverse Stressed scenario. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140001212, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): What should the Firm report for "Region" on FR Y-14Q, Schedule L.1.f - Residual counterparty summary metrics by collateralization, industry, region, and ratings, for countries that are not explicitly listed in the FR Y-14Q Schedule F – Trading "Regional Groupings"? Background: The instructions for FR Y-14Q Schedule L.1.f requires the Firm to report "Region" based on the "Regional Groupings" of counterparties provided in FR Y-14Q, Schedule F. However, the "Regional Groupings" provided in Schedule L.1.f is not a comprehensive list and does not clarify how countries, such as Curacao, Republic of the Marshall Islands, Timor-Leste, Wallis and Futuna, etc. which are not part of "Regional Groupings" should be reported. Until further clarification is provided, for countries that are not explicitly listed in the "Regional Groupings", the Firm will report "Region" based on proximity to the categories that are provided. For example, Curacao would be reported as, "Latin America & Caribbean." A: As in Q&A Y140001182, the firm should use the counterparty's domicile for purposes of determining regional grouping. In cases where no regional grouping is explicitly given for a country, the firm may use a methodology that is consistent with internal risk management. As a rule of thumb, the firm may assign a region based on geographic proximity. For example, the firm could use Latin America & Caribbean for Curaçao (CW), and Asia Ex-Japan for Republic of the Marshall Islands (MH), Timor-Leste, or Wallis and Futuna. (FRB Response: November 12, 2020) Q (Y140001259, General): The FRB response provided in a prior question states that while house exposures to CCPs should be included in FR Y-14Q reporting, exchange traded futures and options may be excluded from stressed scenarios as long as the decision to do is adequately documented. Please clarify whether this optional stressed submission exclusion extends to all other house exposures to CCPs, such as those arising from cleared swaps and TBA mortgage forwards. A: All house exposures to CCPs, including exchange-traded futures and options, should be reported in all aspects of the FR Y-14Q Counterparty schedule, including stressed submission. This requirement is expressed on p. 296 of the 2020 Q2 instructions. The prior FAQ response cited in the question reflected a temporary dispensation given at the time (2015), and was not intended to create a permanent optional exclusion. (FRB Response: November 4, 2020) Q (Y140001181, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Per the instructions effective June 30, 2020 for Sub-schedules L.1.a, and L.1.b data to be provided is at the counterparty legal entity level. However on page 299 the instruction says Netting Set ID and Sub-netting Set ID are not optional. How we should report the data – at legal entity level or netting set level? If at legal entity level, can we populate all these fields with NA? A: Sub-schedules L.1.a and L.1.b must be reported at legal entity level. The fields for Netting Set ID and Sub-Netting Set ID may be reported as "NA" for these sub-schedules. (FRB Response: July 29, 2020) Q (Y140001182, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Regional Groupings for Schedule L: The instructions for the new sub-schedule L.1.f, Residual counterparty summary metrics by collateralization, industry, region, and ratings, requires firms to report based on the regional grouping of counter-parties provided in FR Y-14Q, Schedule F – Trading. In Schedule F, that grouping is supposed to be used for reporting the country of underlying assets whereas in Schedule L the reporting is based on the counterparty's domicile. I assume we apply the regional grouping based on Counterparty domicile. Please confirm. The regional groupings are missing countries such as Curacao (CW), Republic of the Marshall Islands (MH) etc. How are we supposed to report exposure to these countries? Instructions in Sub-schedule L.1.f Report the following regional grouping of counterparties as per "Regional Groupings" in FR Y-14Q Trading Schedule F as follows: Advanced Economies Emerging Europe Latin America & Caribbean Asia Ex-Japan Middle East & North Africa Sub-Saharan Africa The template form does not list specifically list Regions. A: (a) Yes, that is correct. When determining regional grouping, the firm should use the counterparty's domicile, as opposed to the country of underlying assets. (b) For purposes of reporting regional grouping for Curaçao (CW), and Republic of the Marshall Islands (MH), the firm should use Latin America & Caribbean, and Asia Ex-Japan, respectively. (FRB Response: July 29, 2020) Q (Y140001191, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Topic: Counterparty Rating Fields L.1.e.1 and L.1.e.2, 2Q20 Instructions Question: Schedule L.1.e reports the aggregate CVA data by ratings and collateralization. Revised instructions to sub-schedule L.1.e.1 effective for reports as of 6/30/2020 remove reference to reporting aggregate CVA data "by internal ratings category." Additionally, sub-schedule L.1.e.2, which reports additional CVA by reserve type makes no reference to grouping by rating. However, the schedule's item instructions include internal rating and external rating descriptions, which seem to indicate reporting a counterparty's internal rating and equivalent external rating across all L.1.e sub-schedules. Please confirm that sub-schedule L.1.e.1 should report the aggregate CVA data in a single line item without disaggregating by internal rating, and L.1.e.2 should report CVA data by reserve type, without further bucketing by internal rating. A: Internal ratings and external ratings information are applicable to sub-schedules L.1.e.3 and L.1.e.4 only. As illustrated in the pdf reporting form, sub-schedule L.1.e.2 on additional/offline CVA reserves does not require a ratings breakdown. For purposes of reporting Aggregate CVA data on sub-schedule L.1.e.1, firms should aggregate the exposure amounts across sub-schedule L.1.e.2, L.1.e.3, and L.1.e.4, also summing across all ratings. (FRB Response: March 25, 2020) Q (Y140001190, General): Topic: Counterparty Exposure Universe L.1-4, 2Q20 Instructions Question: Schedule L revised instructions effective for reports as of 6/30/2020, limit reporting on sub-schedules L.1 – L.4 to transactions requiring CVA for the unstressed and stressed submissions. This limitation does not appear to apply to sub-schedule L.5. Therefore, a counterparty reported on L.5 may have a larger total exposure amount compared to prior sub-schedules if a counterparty has a netting set not requiring CVA. Please confirm that a counterparty's total exposure amount reported on L.5 may not coincide with the exposure amounts reported on L.1 – L.4. A: If a Consolidated/Parent Counterparty is selected as a top name and reported on the sub-schedule L.1 – L.3, the firm should include in sub-schedules L.1-L.3 its exposures to all the counterparty legal entities/netting sets associated with the consolidated/parent counterparty, rather than only the legal entities/netting sets for which the firm has the CVA associated with them. In doing so, the firm's exposures to a consolidated counterparty reported on sub-schedule L.1-3 should match those reported on sub-schedule L.5. (FRB Response: March 25, 2020) Q (Y140000966, General): What is FED's view on inclusion of Generic and Specific Wrong Way Risk CVA impact in stressed counterparty loss projection? The industry currently doesn't include generic WWR in the accounting CVA and only uses the impact analysis for risk management. Specific WWR is usually included in the accounting CVA. Should the firm follow a similar approach for CCAR? A: For the FR Y-14Q reporting purposes under Supervisory Scenarios, the firm is not required to develop and apply a separate methodology only for CCAR purposes. If wrong way risk (general or specific) is not directly modeled in the firm's CVA methodologies, and the firm takes additional model overlay/adjustment outside of its main CVA system instead under unstressed or/and stressed scenarios, the firm should apply the same methodologies for purposes of reporting CVA and various underlying components of CVA (for both unstressed and FR stressed scenarios) in all the relevant sub-schedules of the FR Y-14Q Counterparty schedule. In doing so, the firm's offline model overlay/adjustment should be reported under Sub-schedule L.1.e additional/offline CVA reserves. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140001003, General): Relevant Attribute: Agreement Role (CACNR530): Would the FRB please clarify and provide an example of when it is appropriate to use an agreement role classification of "client" as opposed to "principal"? A: Under the "Agreement Role" for SFTs, a firm should report "Client" when there is another agent that acts on behalf of the reporting firm, and "Principal" when the firm is a counterparty in a bilateral SFT trade. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140001007, General): Relevant Attribute: Unstressed MtM Cash Collateral (Derivatives) (USD – CACSJF43; EUR – CACSJF44; GBP – CACSJF45; JPY – CACSJF46; Other – CACSJF47) Should the MTM of the Cash Collateral be reported in the local currency of the respective currency bucket or in the USD equivalent of the respective currency bucket? If local currency should be reported and the "Other" bucket includes multiple currencies, should the total USD equivalent of those currencies be reported? A: For purposes of reporting "Unstressed MtM Cash Collateral (Derivatives)," the MTM of the Cash Collateral should be reported in the USD equivalent of the respective currency bucket, as opposed to the local currency of the respective currency bucket. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000959, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Please provide some guidance on what is the expected order of reporting for the L1 series during the Stressed submission? Report the Top 20 counterparty and begin with schedules L.1.a, L.1.b.1-L.1.b.2, L.1.c.1-L.1.c.3 or L.1.d-L.1.d.2 (without any duplications of counterparties)? Report the Top 20 counterparty and begin with schedules L.1.a, L.1.c.1-L.1.c.3 or L.1.d-L.1.d.2 (without any duplications of counterparties). If all Top 20 counterparties are reported, do not report on L.1.b.1 or L.1.b.2? Report additional counterparties if needed to arrive at Top 20 on L.1.b.1 or L.1.b.2? A: Firm is expected to report counterparties based on completing sub-schedules L.1.a-d in sequential order, starting with L.1.a, then proceeding to L.1.b, etc. The intention of the Top 20 sub-schedules (L.1.b-d) is to capture additional material counterparties that are not reported on L.1.a. Firm may report less than 20 counterparties in L.1b-d if counterparty names have already been reported on L.1.a. Counterparty names reported in L.1a-d should be mutually exclusive. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140001013, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Please confirm our understanding/interpretation of the ranking methodologies for CCAR (stressed) quarter for Schedule L5.1: Ranking Methodologies for non G-7/non CCP counterparties as of CCAR (stressed) quarter: Top 25 non-sovereign and non-CCP counterparties by Total Stressed Net CE under the Federal Reserve Severely Adverse Stressed scenario. Top 25 non-sovereign and non-CCP counterparties by Total Stressed Net CE under the Federal Reserve Adverse Stressed scenario. Interpretation: For the stressed template, firms are required to report on 2 ranking methodologies (as opposed to 4 ranking methodologies for unstressed). For Ranking methodology 1, we will define the top 25 counterparties based on SFT Stressed Net CE + Derivative Stressed Net CE under Severely Adverse scenarios. For Ranking methodology 2, we will define the top 25 counterparties based on SFT Stressed Net CE + Derivative Stressed Net CE under Adverse stress scenarios. Total Stressed Net CE is the sum of SFT Stressed Net CE and Derivative Stressed Net CE and reported only once. A: The firm's interpretation is correct. Specifically, a firm should apply two ranking methodologies for stressed data submission of sub-schedule L.5. By doing so, the firm should determine the top 25 counterparties based on Total Stressed Net CE (Severely Adverse – CACNR536 for ranking methodology 1; and Adverse – CACNR537 for ranking methodology 2) as defined in the latest 14Q instruction. Total Stressed Net CE should capture all exposures (both SFTs and derivatives including any trades subject to cross product netting cutting across SFTs and derivatives) to a consolidated/parent counterparty after applying instantaneous global market shock; and should be reported once at the legal entity level. This item should not be repeated across Netting Set IDs associated with the legal entity. (FRB Response: December 11, 2019) Q (Y140000913, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): In our file, we received an error message of "duplicate" records from FRB analyst for these primary key fields because we consolidated L5.1 derivatives and L6.1 SFTs per FRB Q1 2018 instructions. For this counterparty, there is exposure under NA agreements for both. How would you like us to submit the data? Index CACNM902 to NA and NA1, which draws a distinction between SFTs and Derivatives. Consolidate exposure into one distinct record. A: When the edit check failure occurs due to duplicate records of primary key fields in sub-schedule L.5 (one for SFTs and the other for Derivatives) that have the same Netting Set ID (Index CACNM902) denoted as NA, the firm is asked to submit the data by distinguishing the two Netting Set IDs separately, i.e., NA and NA1 for SFTs and Derivatives, respectively. (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000936, General): Should the Bank include its TBA exposure within non Trading portfolios (e.g., Fair Value Hedge (FVH) book) in the XVA (counterparty) loss estimation? A: A firm should include all of its bilateral OTC derivatives, including TBA, in its data submission in the FR Y-14Q Schedule L (Counterparty). (FRB Response: October 10, 2018) Q (Y140000890, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): Even if the IHC is not subjected to Counterparty Default for 4Q2017, the IHC must submit the CCAR/Stressed submission or just the stressed information in the Regular/Unstressed submission? Can you please be more specific? Example for L.1.c.1 (ranked by Net CE) IHC is reporting Net CE (unstressed). Does the IHC also have to include Stressed Net CE FR Scenarios (Severely Adverse and Adverse) and BHC/IHC Scenario for 4Q17 reporting? Additionally, does the IHC have to submit L.1.c.2 Top 20 counterparties ranked by Federal Reserve Severely Adverse Scenario Stressed Net CE and Top 20 counterparties ranked by BHC/IHC Scenario Stressed Net CE for the CCAR/Stressed? A: Please see the response to Question Y140000849. (FRB Response: June 20, 2018) Q (Y140000789, General): The Final Rule states the following: "In consideration of the recommendations outlined by commenters regarding the submission of FR Y-14Q, Schedule F (Trading) and Schedule L (Counterparty), the Board agrees that a delay in the initial data submission date would facilitate improved data quality. Although commenters indicated that submitting data as of September 30, 2017, would be feasible with a delay in the submission date, firms joining the reporting panel will not be required to report the FR Y- 14 trading and counterparty schedules until the December 31, 2017 as-of date. Given the alternative approach to inclusion of trading and counterparty activities for these firms for stress testing in 2018 the Board will provide firms with additional time to submit the FR Y-14 data with the objective of allowing for additional opportunities for submitting test files and achieving higher data quality. Specifically, the FR Y-14 trading and counterparty for the reports as of Q4 2017 will be due May 1, 2018. In addition, there will also be a delayed submission date for the reports as of Q1 2018, which will be due June 30, 2018. For the reports Q2 2018 forward, the data will be due as outlined in the FR Y-14 instructions." Please confirm our understanding: As IHCs are not subject to GMS for CCAR 2018, the FR Y-14Q, Schedule L (Counterparty) submission as of Q4, 2017 will only be an unstressed submission. IHCs will not be subject to providing linkage of 14A results with 14Q as it relates to Trading and Counterparty schedules. A: Please see the responses to Y140000849 and Y140000788. (FRB Response: June 13, 2018) Q (Y140000812, General): We would like to clarify the definition of "designated central clearing counterparties," which is referenced in a prior question. We are only aware of "central counterparties" (CCP) and "qualifying central counterparty" (QCCP). Please define "designated central clearing counterparties" or let us know if these are synonymous with CCP. A: A Designated CCP means a designated financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act or, for counterparties not located in the United States, is regulated and supervised in a manner equivalent to a designated financial market utility. (FRB Response: May 2, 2018) Q (Y140000849, General): The December 15, 2017 FRB notice stated that it is delaying the application of the global market shock to firms that would become newly subject, until the 2019 DFAST/CCAR exercise. The notice also stated that the FR Y-14 trading and counterparty reports as of Q4 2017 will be due May 1, 2018 for these newly subject firms. The FR Y-14Q instructions issued on December 20, 2017 state that for the CCAR as-of quarter, schedule L must be submitted with stressed information. Please confirm that IHCs submitting the FR Y-14Q schedule L as of Q4 2017 on May 1, 2018 are not required to populate any of the sections requiring stressed information. A: In accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-14Q, IHCs are required to submit all aspects of the FR Y-14Q Schedule L as of Q4 2017, including the stressed information. (FRB Response: May 2, 2018) Update: As directed in the final Federal Register notice (see 82 FR 59608 (December 15, 2017)) (December 15 Federal Register notice) and the January 26, 2018 letters to each of the six IHCs (January 26 Letters) subject to the market risk component, each IHC must submit the FR Y-14Q "reports under the extended reporting timeline provided in the December 15, 2017 FR Y-14 rule for the FR Y-14Q, Schedule F (Trading) and Schedule L (Counterparty) (i.e., for the December 31, 2017 as of date, the schedules would be due May 1, 2018)." These six IHCs will not be subject to the global market shock until CCAR 2019. Although these six IHCs are required to submit all aspects of the FR Y-14Q Schedule L as of December 31, 2017, only firms subject to the global market shock prepare the analysis that would populate the stressed portions of these schedules. Accordingly, an IHC that submits all aspects of the FR Y-14Q Schedule L, including reporting "nulls" for the stressed portions of the schedule, would meet the reporting requirements, as directed by the December 15 Federal Register notice and the January 26 Letters. (FRB Response: May 8, 2018) Q (Y140000820, L.4 – CVA Sensitivities and Slides): We seek further clarification on the ranking methodology for Top 10 counterparty CVA sensitivity reporting in the 14Q Schedule L template. The instruction asks firms to report top 10 counterparties with the largest sensitivities to a given risk factor (1bp or 1% increase). Should we rank counterparties based on absolute value of the sensitivity (i.e., both CVA increase and decrease sensitivities will be considered at absolute level for ranking purpose), or should we rank counterparties just based on the value of the sensitivity (i.e., positive values, or CVA increases, will be ranked at the top of the list)? L.4 – Aggregate and Top 10 CVA Sensitivities by Risk Factor This schedule collects sensitivity information of aggregate asset-side CVA based on changes in underlying risk factors. A sensitivity refers to a 1 unit change in the risk factor, and a slide refers to a larger change in the risk factor. Report an increase in CVA as a positive figure. Reported figures should be gross of CVA hedges. Sensitivities are collected in aggregate, i.e., across all positions for which CVA is taken, and for the 10 counterparties with the largest sensitivities to a given risk factor (i.e., top 10 by factor). Sensitivities for top 10 counterparties For each risk factor, report the change in CVA for each of the top 10 counterparties most sensitive to a 1bp or 1% increase, depending on risk factor. Report an increase in CVA as a positive figure. Reported sensitivities should be gross of CVA hedges. A: For purposes of reporting Top 10 CVA Sensitivities by Risk factor on the FR Y-14Q, Schedule L.4, firms should rank counterparties based on the absolute value of the sensitivity (i.e., both CVA increase and decrease sensitivities will be considered at absolute level for ranking purposes). It should be further noted that, when aggregating asset-side CVA sensitivities for a given risk factor across counterparties and across multiple netting sets, firms should aggregate by netting positive and negative CVA sensitivities, that are calculated at a netting set level, gross of CVA hedge. (FRB Response: May 2, 2018) Q (Y140000751, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): Can you please clarify the requirement on the netting set detail? Do we need to specify the liquidity level of the collateral only OR all underlying securities within the netting agreement? A: The level of liquidity should be determined based on all underlying securities and collaterals within the netting sets. For example, in cases of Securities Financing Transactions (SFTs) which involve cash extended or received in exchange for securities held as collateral, the liquidity level should be determined based on the securities held as collateral. In cases of SFTs that involve securities lent or received in exchange for cash collateral, the liquidity level should be determined based on the underlying securities. (FRB Response: March 14, 2018) Q (Y140000686, General): Per the below FRB guidance received on October 14th, 2016, the following NAICS codes need to be used for Hedge Funds and Individuals Providing Personal Guarantees: 525992: Hedge Funds 999940: Any private household activities not including trust or personal investment activities, and not related to domestic services. However, from our understanding and review, neither of these codes exist in the published list of NAICS Codes and therefore, are not setup in our systems as permissible values. Accordingly, we would appreciate additional clarification regarding the correct NAICS codes to be used for these populations. Alternatively, if these NAICS codes as provided are intended to be incorporated into the official/published list, further guidance regarding how to proceed until that process is complete would be appreciated. A: When a NAICS industry is not available, firms are asked to report the relevant Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) industry. If neither NAICS nor GICS industries are available, report the relevant Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) industry. (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000706, General): We would like to get more clarification on which sub-schedules should the BHC be reflecting the client exposures to CCPs per the instructions modified as of August 22, 2017. Designated central clearing counterparty (CCP) exposures should include both cleared OTC derivatives and exchange traded derivatives. For counterparties that clear both OTC derivatives and exchange traded derivatives (namely futures and options), provide a breakout of the amount of exposure reported for each (OTC vs exchange traded) in the notes section of the CCR schedule or a supplemental Excel file submitted as supporting documentation. Report both house and client exposures to the CCPs and report these counterparties at the legal entity level, as opposed to consolidated entity level. Gross CE, Net CE, and CVA (as defined in column instructions below) should include all exposures to the CCP, such as default fund contributions, initial margin, and any other collateral provided to the CCP that exceeds contract MTM amounts. Additionally, Stressed EEs, as reported on sub-schedule L.2, should also include CCP exposures. A: This particular aspect of the recently revised instructions was rescinded and was reverted back to the version that was in effect prior to the August publication. Please see the revised instructions published on November 1, 2017. (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000713, L.6 – Derivatives Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Set Level and at a Consolidated Counterparty Level): The most recent instructions on Unstressed Exposure MTM for sub-schedule L.6 is the following: "The mark-to-market value of exposure under the agreement, not including collateral but including netting of positions where legally binding. This could be a positive or negative value. The aggregate of the positive amounts for a given consolidated counterparty should be equivalent to the Gross CE for the consolidated counterparty. When a legally-enforceable netting agreement is not in-place, this should be a sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values across positions associated with the consolidated counterparty." For a counterparty without a legally-enforceable netting agreement, its Gross CE is the sum of positive mark-to-market values. The reporting template only has one Unstressed Exposure MTM column. If we report this field as sum of positive and negative MTM values for counterparty without a legally enforceable netting agreement, it will not be equal to the counterparty's Gross CE. Could the FRB kindly clarify this part of the instructions? A: This particular aspect of the instruction specifies the method by which banks should report the Unstressed Exposure MtM field in cases where a legally enforceable netting agreement is not in place. We acknowledge that unstressed Exposure MtM is not identical to Gross CE, and hence require both fields to be reported separately. Part of the instruction which reads, "The aggregate of the positive amounts for a given consolidated counterparty should be equivalent to the Gross CE for the consolidated counterparty," was to provide the illustrative description of the relationship between the two different reporting measures. (FRB Response: February 14, 2018) Q (Y140000714, L.1 – Derivatives Profile by Counterparty and Aggregate Across all Counterparties): The reporting instruction for sub-schedule L.1.b states, "If a Top 20 counterparty already is reported on sub-schedule L.1.a, L.1.c.1-L.1.c.3, or L.1.d.1-L.1.d.2, do not duplicate information for that counterparty on sub-schedule L.1.b.1 or L.1.b.2. Report only any additional counterparties needed to arrive at the Top 20 by each specific sorting criteria that are not already incorporated in sub-schedule L.1.a, L.1.c.1-L.1.c.3, or L.1.d.1-L.1.d.2." The reporting instruction for sub-schedule L.1.c states, "If a Top 20 counterparty already is reported on sub-schedule L.1.a, L.1.b.1, or L.1.b.2, do not duplicate information for that counterparty on this Top 20 counterparties sub-schedule. Report only any additional counterparties needed to arrive at the Top 20 by each specific sorting criteria that are not already incorporated in sub-schedule L.1.a, L.1.b.1, and L.1.b.2." Based on our interpretation of the above instructions, this will create circular references when detecting duplicated counterparties between sub-schedule L.1.b and L.1.c. With this expectation, we believe that the instruction for L.1.b should instead be, "If a Top 20 counterparty already is reported on sub-schedule L.1.a, do not duplicate information for that counterparty on sub-schedule L.1.b." Please confirm whether our interpretation is correct. A: The instruction was intended to specify the requirement that top 20 counterparty names should not overlap between sub-schedules L.1.a, L.1.b.1-L.1.b2, L.1.c.1-L.1.c.3, or L.1.d.1-L.1.d.2. Your interpretation is correct in that, for purposes of reporting sub-schedule L.1.b.1, top 20 counterparties must be selected based on those counterparties that are not already incorporated in sub-schedule L.1.a. Also, as in the instruction, do not duplicate the same counterparty information between sub-schedule L.1.b.1. and sub-schedule L.1.b. 2, (i.e., a Top 20 counterparty that is reported on L.1.b.1 should not appear in L.1.b.2.). (FRB Response: December 20, 2017) Q (Y140000712, L.6 – Derivatives Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Set Level and at a Consolidated Counterparty Level): The latest Central Counterparty Reporting instruction requires firms to report client exposures to the CCPs at the legal entity level as opposed to consolidated entity level. "Report both house and client exposures to the CCPs and report these counterparties at the legal entity level, as opposed to consolidated entity level." However, related instruction for sub-schedule L.6 asks firms to report client exposures consolidated. "This schedule includes situations in which the firm is clearing transactions (both centrally cleared derivatives and listed derivatives) on behalf of a client that creates exposure to the client in the event of client default. Such exposures should be included in the consolidated exposure to the client, i.e., risk taking entity." CCP client clearing credit exposures are similar to regular derivative credit exposures so we interpret the instructions to indicate that we should report client exposures at the consolidated level (i.e. if a bank clears derivatives for two subsidiary entities of a counterparty, the exposure facing these two subsidiaries should be reported consolidated against the parent counterparty). Please confirm whether our interpretation is correct. A: Please refer to the revised instructions published November 1, 2017. (FRB Response: December 20, 2017) Q (Y140000701, L.6 – Derivatives Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Set Level and at a Consolidated Counterparty Level): The updated instruction with modified date, August 22, 2017, version, we need clarification. Schedule L.5 and L.6 (on page 277), in regard to Central Counterparty Reporting it states: "Report both house and client exposures to the CCPs..." Schedule L.6 (on page 303), the instructions states: "This schedule includes situations in which the firm is clearing transactions (both centrally-cleared derivatives and listed derivatives) on behalf of client that creates exposure to the client in the event of client default. Such exposures should be included in the consolidated exposure to the client, i.e., risk taking entity. " Is the second statement of reporting client exposure to the client, in the event of default what is meant on p. 277 as client exposure to the CCPs? A: This aspect of the recently revised instructions has been rescinded. This aspect of the instructions has reverted back to the version that was in effect prior to the August 22 publication. This will result in reporting requirements in 2018 that are identical to the 2017 requirements for this aspect of the recently revised reporting instructions. Revised instructions were published in early November 2017 on the Board's public website. (FRB Response: November 15, 2017) Q (Y140000739, L.5 – Securities Financing Transactions Profile for the Top 25 Counterparties by Netting Agreement Level, Consolidated Counterparty Level and Aggregate Across All Counterparties): When reporting exchange-traded futures and options on FR Y-14Q Schedule L, should the exposure from the clearing member to the CCP be reported or from the risk-taking entity to the CCP? A: When reporting cleared OTC derivatives and listed futures and options contracts on futures exchanges, the firm is only required to include house exposures to the CCPs. As in the instructions that were in effect prior to the August 2017 instruction change, the firm's client exposures to the CCP are not required to be reported, nor are the firm's client facing exposures arising from listed derivatives. (FRB Response: October 25, 2017) Schedule M—Balances Q (Y140001509, General): We are seeking further clarification as to how loans to individuals for investment purposes (including those that would be considered non-purpose loans) should be reported in the FR Y-14Q. The instructions for Schedule H.1 - Corporate Loans indicate that non-purpose loans reportable in the relevant FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C categories outlined in the instructions for this schedule should be included regardless of whether those loans are "graded." One of these lines is Schedule HC-C line 9.b.(2) - All Other Loans. Instructions for line 9.b.(2) require loans to individuals for investment purposes be included there. A prior Q&A indicates that non-purpose loans, which are considered consumer loans should be reported on the FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C line 6(b) "Other revolving credit plans" or 6(d) "Other consumer loans" and on the FR Y-14Q Schedule M line 4.c "Non-purpose consumer lending". If the non-purpose loans are considered commercial, they should be reported in line 9.b2 "All other loans" on Schedule HC-C and in line 5.e "Other commercial loans" on the FR Y-14Q Schedule M. In addition, another prior Q&A and the Schedule H.1 instructions state that non-purpose loans reportable in the relevant FR Y-9C categories outlined in the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan instructions (the instructions include line 9.b2), which meet the $1 million reporting threshold should be reported on the FR Y-14Q Corporate Loan schedule. While these FAQs and Schedule H.1/Schedule M instructions refer to Schedule HC-C line items 6.b, 6.d and 9.b2 and provide specific reporting requirements depending on whether non-purpose loans are considered consumer or commercial loans, there is no specific reference in the FR Y-14Q instructions to where loans to individuals for investment purposes (typically scored/delinquency-manage) that are reportable on HC-C Line 9.b.(2) - All Other Loans should be reported. In light of this, we would like to know 1) where on FR Y-14Q Schedule M they should be reported if they meet the definition of a non purpose loan and where they should if they do not, and 2) whether all non-purpose loans to individuals included in Line 9.b.(2) which cross the $1 million threshold should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1. A: As noted in the Schedule M.1 instructions, small business loans included in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C 9.b.(2) should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule M.1 under item 2.b. SME card and corporate card loans included in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C 9.b.(2). should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule M.1 under item 2.c. Graded commercial loans and nonpurpose loans (regardless of whether those loans are graded) included in FR Y-9C, Schedule HC-C, line 9.b.(2) should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule M.1 under item 5.e. All nonpurpose loans to individuals included in FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C Line 9.b.(2) equal to or greater than $1 million should be reported on FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1. For the purposes of FR Y-14Q Schedule H.1, nonpurpose loans are loans collateralized by securities made for any purpose other than purchasing or carrying securities. (FRB Response: December 7, 2022) Q (Y140001420, General): Where should scored, non-consumer corporate card activity reportable on FR Y-9C Schedule HC-C lines 2a, 2b, 3, 7, and 9a be reported on Schedule M of the FR Y-14Q? There is no guidance provided in the FR-Y9C nor the FR Y-14Q instructions on where these products should be reported on Schedule M since they do not fit into any of the available categories. A: Since the described loans are scored, non-graded, and not non-purpose, they should be reported in FR Y-14Q, Schedule M.1 (Quarter-end Balances), item 2.b ("Small business loans"). (FRB Response: August 25, 2021) Q (Y140000678, General): The FR Y-14Q Schedule M.1 (Loan and Lease Balances) includes a breakout of two sub-products within Residential Real Estate line 1.a.(1): (a) First Mortgages, and (b) First Lien HELOANs, both of which are reported on FR Y9-C, Schedule HC-C line 1.c.(2).(a). To ensure accuracy in our reporting, we would appreciate additional guidance on the definition of "First Lien HELOANs," as we are not aware of an industry standard definition for this product or how this loan population differs from First Mortgages. A: "First lien" is a concept indicating that the debt holder has first priority to receive recovery proceeds from collateral in the case of borrower default. A HELOAN—a form of second mortgage loan—can become a first lien if the first mortgage is paid off or if the first mortgage is modified and the recording date of the modified loan becomes later than that of the HELOAN. (FRB Response: September 27, 2017) Back to Top Last Update: April 16, 2026