TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Statement Regarding the Publication of Reference Rates on Friday ...
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/opolicy/operating_policy_260312a
LANE: keyword_discovery
DISCOVERY_METHOD: search
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Operating Policy Statement Regarding the Publication of Reference Rates on Friday, April 3, 2026 March 12, 2026 There will be no publication of the Tri-Party General Collateral Rate (TGCR), the Broad General Collateral Rate (BGCR), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), or the SOFR Averages and Index on Friday, April 3, 2026. Due to the release of the March Employment Situation report, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) is not recommending a full closure for secondary market trading of U.S. government securities for Good Friday. Nonetheless, repo market participants broadly expect to treat April 3 as a holiday. In particular, settlement of cleared Treasury repo is not scheduled to be available, which would eliminate two of the three market segments used to calculate and differentiate the Treasury repo reference rates. As a result, on Monday, April 6, 2026, the TGCR, BGCR, and SOFR will be published, reflecting same-day settling Treasury repo transactions that settle on Thursday, April 2, 2026 and mature on Monday, April 6. The SOFR Averages and Index published on April 6 will have a value date of April 6. Publication of the Effective Federal Funds Rate (EFFR) and Overnight Bank Funding Rate (OBFR) follow the New York Fed’s holiday schedule and will be published on Friday, April 3, 2026. For more information regarding publication arrangements, please see the Additional Information about Reference Rates Administered by the New York Fed page. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map