TARGET: NYSE Trade
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: NYSE Bonds
URL: https://www.nyse.com/trade/bonds

NYSE Bonds
Your browser is unsupported
Please visit
this URL
to review a
list of supported browsers.
NYSE Logo
ICE
NYSE
NYSE CONNECT
LOGIN
NYSE Logo
Listings
Trading
Market Data
Insights
About
Trading at NYSE
/
NYSE Bonds
NYSE Bonds
Market Highlights
Firm Orders
Price/Time Allocation Model
Locked In Trades
No Execution Fees
Rebates for Liquidity Providers
The NYSE Bond marketplace provides opportunities for both liquidity takers and liquidity providers to interact in a fair, open environment. There are no subject orders — all orders are firm. All trades are locked in and uploaded to DTCC with the appropriate accrued interest adjustments made for clearing and settlement.
The NYSE Bonds orders are matched on a strict price/time priority basis. Undisplayed reserve interest will always yield to displayed orders at a particular price. All orders will only be matched with orders resident in the order book. Bonds will trade in decimal increments to 2 decimal places (e.g. 101.32).
Eligible Bonds
List of eligible
bonds
Trading Hours
Early Trading 4:00 a.m. ET — 8:00 a.m. ET
Core Trading 8:00 a.m. ET — 5:00 p.m. ET
Late Trading 5:00 p.m. ET — 8:00 p.m. ET
Bond Auctions
The NYSE conducts two daily bond auctions – an Opening Bond Auction at 4:00 a.m. ET and a Core Bond Auction at 8:00 a.m. ET. Orders not executed in either auction become eligible for continuous trading immediately after the auction.
Holidays
All NYSE
markets
Order Types
Limit:
an order to buy or sell a stated amount of bonds at or above a specified price
Reserve:
a limit order with a portion of the size displayed, with a reserve portion of the size (the reserve size) that is not displayed
Good Til Cancelled:
a limit order to buy or sell at a specified price that remains active (during core trading hours) from one day to the next until the order is either executed or cancelled
Bond orders that trade on the NYSE are represented by a nine-character CUSIP.
An order to buy $25,000 face value of bonds issued by IBM with a coupon rate of 6.50% maturing on January 15,  2028, would appear in the NYSE system as:
Buy 25 459200AS0 @ 101.67
Quantity: 25 represents the number of bonds traded with a face amount of $1000
Price :  expressed as “Percent of Par Value” (over 100 is at a premium, under 100 is at a discount to the face value)
CUSIP: 3704A0KC5 is the NYSE symbol for this specific bond issued by IBM.
Trading Fees
Execution Fee per bond for orders that take liquidity from the NYSE BondBook:
Executions of one to ten (10) bonds
$0.00 per bond
Executions of eleven (11) to twenty-five (25) bonds
$0.00 per bond
Executions of twenty-six (26) bonds and above
$0.00 per bond
Bond Liquidity Provider rebate
$0.05 per bond
Bond Liquidity Provider rebates are subject to a $50.00 maximum fee per execution.
NYSE Price
List
Membership
To trade on the NYSE Bonds platform, your firm must have membership to NYSE and complete the
NYSE Bonds Membership Application
.
For questions regarding the application, please contact
Client Relationship Services
.
Connectivity
NYSE Bonds offers a range of connectivity options to access our market.
Connect Directly Through the FIX Gateway
NYSE Bonds Connectivity
Application
NYSE Bonds FIX
Gateway Specification
Connect with Bloomberg
As a Bloomberg Trade Order Management System (TOMS) customer, a preferred strategic partnership with NYSE Bonds will give you an additional avenue of liquidity—at no added cost. For more information, please visit the
Bloomberg TOMS page
.
Clearing
NYSE Bonds leverages an all-electronic trading platform to provide efficient and transparent trades.
Post Trade Processing
Once a trade has been executed, trade details are transmitted to the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC®) for clearance and settlement via the Regional Interface Organization (RIO). All DTCC/NSCC RIO eligible bond trades executed on the NYSE Bonds platform will be submitted to NSCC® without an omnibus account as "locked-in transactions" meaning that the bond platform has matched the details of the trades from buyer and seller.
Clearance and Settlement Notices
Give-ups will not be available
All trades will be reported to NSCC® with the accrued interest included in the price
If the bond is CNS eligible, all trade settlement will follow the regular way, two-day settlement timetable
The buyer and seller will be responsible for certain bonds that trade ex-clearing and clearing submission
DTCC supports NYSE RIO for all participants that trade bonds on NYSE. To receive the NYSE RIO, please contact your Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. (DTCC) representative.
All DTCC / NSCC RIO eligible bond trades executed on the NYSE platform will match the trade details of both buyer and seller by submitting them to NSCC® as locked-in transactions without an omnibus account.
NYSE Bonds
Ex-Clearing Securities
NYSE Bonds Participant
Clearing Numbers
If you have trade breaks or have clearing questions on the new bond platform, please contact us between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. ET.
NYSE Logo
Listings
What to List
How to List
Listing Process
Listing Resources
Exchange Traded Products
Global Advisory
Sustainability Resource Center
NYSE Board Services
NYSE Connect
Investor Access
Corporate Services
About
Our History
The Bell
Media Center
Behind the Scenes
Events
Products
Equities
Options
Bonds
ETPs
Data
Trading and Data Information
NYSE Data Products
Equity Index Data
Data Policies, Contracts & Guidelines
Resources
NYSE Community
Recent Public Debuts
Insights
Listing Manager
Regulation
Pillar Trading System
ICE Global Network
Widget Library
Privacy & Security Center
Your Choices
Terms of Use
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
©
2026
Intercontinental Exchange, Inc.