TARGET: RBA Speeches
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Media conference: Monetary Policy Decision – 9 December 2025 | Speeches | RBA
URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2025/mc-gov-2025-12-09.html
INDEX_URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/
ARTICLE_URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2025/mc-gov-2025-12-09.html
CANONICAL_URL: https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2025/mc-gov-2025-12-09.html
PAGE_TITLE: Media conference: Monetary Policy Decision – 9 December 2025 | Speeches | RBA
H1: Media conference Monetary Policy Decision
PUBLISHED_AT: 2025-12-09T15:30+11:00
PAGE_TYPE: speech
EXPECTED_LANGUAGE: en
DETECTED_LANGUAGE: en
CONTENT_WORD_COUNT: 6448
EXTRACTION_WARNINGS: 

Media conference
Monetary Policy Decision
Michele Bullock
Governor
Sydney
–
9 December 2025
Audio
36.2MB
Watch video: Media conference held on 9 December 2025, Sydney
Transcript
Michele Bullock
Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the last one of the year. So as you see today the Board decided
to leave the cash rate unchanged at 3.6 per cent. Inflation came in a bit stronger than
expected in the September quarter. Some of this looked to be temporary factors but there were signs
of persistence in some items. The Board discussed how much signal to take from the new monthly CPI
and concluded at this early stage in the series it needs to be cautious. The Board is nevertheless
alert to the signs of a more broad-based pick-up in inflation. The labour market has evolved broadly
as expected and remains a bit tight. And the national accounts last week showed GDP growth was
broadly in line with our November forecasts. That said, growth in private demand was a bit stronger
than expected, largely driven by business investment. Growth in household consumption was largely as
expected. The outlook for the global economy is also more balanced than earlier this year, although
downside risks remain. So as you know the Board has been very cautious this year as it sees policy.
It’s highlighted the possibility of upside risks in our assessments, particularly the degree of
tightness in the labour market. And indeed the recent run of data suggests there may be more
tightness in the economy than previously assessed.
The Board therefore assessed that the balance of risk to inflation had tilted a bit to the upside.
This is while downside risks, particularly from overseas, seem to have abated a little bit.
We’ve also been mindful of the timing of electricity rebates and their temporary effects on
inflation data. Rebates temporarily lower headline inflation, and as they roll off the headline
inflation will move higher. The Board looked through these effects when rebates were put on and is
going to do so again as they come off. Before the next meeting we will receive more data on the
labour market and inflation, including quarterly trimmed mean. These will be important inputs into
our updated forecasts and for the Board’s deliberations in February. We remain focused on
returning inflation to target while maintaining the unemployment rate as low as possible. Taking a
longer view our inflation and full employment objectives are complementary. Keeping inflation low and
stable enables strong and sustainable employment growth. So the Board will be driven by what the
incoming data tells us about where the economy has been and what this means for the outlook. Happy to
take your questions.
Stella Qiu
Hi Governor, happy last meeting of the year. It’s Stella from Reuters. We just have a simple
question, did you consider the case of a rate cut or the case for a hike today and if not, why not?
Michele Bullock
Thank you, Stella. We didn’t consider the case for a rate cut at all. We didn’t explicitly
consider the case for a rate rise at this meeting. But we did consider and discuss quite a lot the
circumstances and what might need to happen if we were to decide that interest rates had to rise
again at some point next year. So there was no - but certainly there was no cut on the table and
no-one suggested that there be a cut.
Luke Kinsella
Hi Governor. Luke Kinsella from The Financial Review. Headline inflation is at
3.8 per cent, well above the RBA’s target band. If we get another uncomfortably high
inflation rate for the December quarter, is it plausible that you could need to hike interest rates
at your next meeting in February? And is that what you meant when you were speaking at Senate
Estimates last week when you said that if inflation was more permanent it would have implications for
the future path of monetary policy?
Michele Bullock
I wasn’t thinking about a particular timing, Luke, but certainly if the inflation pressures look
- when we get more data, they look to be persistent and they look to be not in one-off items then I
think that does raise some questions. And I’ve already highlighted a couple of them. One is the
extent of excess capacity in the economy or excess demand. And the tightness of the labour market.
And also the question about how restrictive are financial conditions. So we’ve been judging that
financial conditions were still a little bit tight. If inflation continues to be persistent and looks
like it is not coming back down towards the Board’s target, then I think that does raise
questions about how tight financial conditions are and the Board might have to consider whether or
not it’s appropriate to keep interest rates where they are or in fact at some point raise them.
But I wouldn’t put a timing on that. It’s going to be a meeting-by-meeting decision.
Luke Kinsella
You said that it looked like inflation was driven by those temporary factors. Are you trying to walk
back those comments that you made at the last meeting?
Michele Bullock
No, I’m not walking back comments. It’s very uncertain what is temporary and what is
persistent. And I think we’ve got one number. We’ve got one quarterly number and we’ve
got one monthly number. We don’t know how the monthly numbers are going to play out yet because
it’s a new series. They’re volatile. They’re not seasonally adjusted in a way that
they normally would be with a long series of data. And the other thing is we don’t know how the
series behaves. We do know how the quarterly CPI behaves and the quarterly underlying so we’re
going to be looking for those sorts of numbers to inform our decisions going forward.
Juliette Saly
Hi Governor, Juliette Saly from ausbiz TV. I wanted to flip it a little bit more, KPMG says if you
take the electricity rebates away from the CPI calculation and replace them with the non-rebate
electricity series then the current rate of headline inflation would actually be
3.2 per cent and not 3.8 per cent and AMP is saying they’re finding it hard
to argue at all that inflation will re-accelerate from here. So you touched on the fact that
they’re more likely a rate hike than a rate cut but what about the likelihood that maybe a cut
is needed in 2026?
Michele Bullock
I would say at this moment that given what’s happening with underlying momentum in the economy
that it does look like additional cuts are not needed. The private economy is recovering. It’s
taking over from public demand. So that’s happening as expected. We also know we’re coming
from a position where if the economy is not in balance it might even be a little bit tight. So
they’re the circumstances in which I think where - and I have always said we didn’t go as
high as other countries so we possibly had not as far to come back as other countries. So you’re
right to highlight the inflation figures. In February, obviously we’ll be coming back to this
with new data. We’ll be coming back with new forecasts. Looking at how long it will take to come
back to 2.5 per cent because that’s our target and we’re still a fair way away
from it.
Swati Pandey
Governor, Swati Pandey from Bloomberg. Follow up to Stella’s question, on the circumstances that
you discussed, circumstances under which there could be an interest rate hike, could you provide some
more colour on what are the circumstances, especially with Q4 inflation and Q1 inflation
forecasts are already lofty 0.8 per cent Q on Q. You had mentioned 30 per cent
upside risk would be a material miss. Does that still hold true? If you could just provide some
colour on those discussions?
Michele Bullock
So I think no decisions have been made, first of all. First point, no decisions have been made. That
said, the Board does think that relative to six months ago or seven months ago a lot of the downside
risks seem to have abated a bit and some of the upside risks seem to have been generated. That’s
sort of the position we’re in. We’re still not back. We got underlying inflation but
that’s not our target. Our target is headline inflation. It’s very much swung around by the
on and off electricity rebates. We’re not expecting headline inflation to come back to down
below three for another 12 months effectively. So that said, what we’re looking for in
underlying inflation is some sort of clues to whether or not that large increase in quarterly trimmed
mean in the September quarter was just a whole lot of unrelated one-off factors or whether or not it
was demonstrating that there is underlying capacity pressures in the economy. Some of the things
giving us pause there, I mentioned them last time, there’s market services, there’s new
dwellings, there’s durable goods. There’s a few things you’re just thinking, maybe
that’s indicative of what’s going on. So when we come back to this in February, and
we’ll have more labour market data as well, and we’ll be reassessing whether or not we
think the capacity is still a bit tight and we’ll be reassessing whether or not we think
financial conditions are really just a little bit tight or whether or not, in fact, they are
effectively not putting any downward pressure on inflation. So they’re the sorts of things
we’ll be considering coming into next year.
David Chau
Hi Governor, David Chau from ABC News. So what’s the more probable outcome for next year?
Interest rates going down or interest rates going up?
Michele Bullock
David, probabilistic statements, you know I don’t like to make those. What I would say at this
point is what we know at the moment, I don’t think there are interest rate cuts in the horizon
for the foreseeable future. The question is, is it just an extended hold from here or is it
possibility of a rate rise? I couldn’t put a probability on those but I think they’re the
two things that the Board will be looking closely at coming into the new year.
David Chau
And if the Reserve Bank is forced to lift interest rates next year, would that in hindsight have
meant too many rate cuts for 2025?
Michele Bullock
You could read it that way but you could also read it and just - as I said, you go back six or seven
months and a lot of people were saying we needed to drop interest rates quite a lot because things
were very, very soft. The Board is being cautious. I think that has been borne out.
Tom Richardson
Hi Governor, Tom Richardson from The Nightly Channel 7. I think in response to the first question I
was quite surprised you said we didn’t quite explicitly consider the case for a rate hike at
this meeting but the September quarter inflation came in at 3 per cent and we saw them
October monthly climbed to 3.3 core. What you focus on. So all the data and evidence we have at
the moment suggests inflation is rising since July. It’s well above your targeted range.
Aren’t you worried that with statements like the first one people are going to think you’ve
got your head in the sand about inflation at the moment?
Michele Bullock
No, I don’t think so because I don’t think people expect us to react to one number. So I
can list off for you any number of examples. So when the unemployment rate rose back in the September
month to 4.5 per cent people said, you’ve got to lower interest rates, you’ve got
to lower interest rates. We said no, hold on. Let’s wait and see if we can get a bit more
confirmation. We did. It came back down. I think there’s enough in the quarterly inflation print
to suggest that there is some persistence there but there’s also a bit to say, there was a whole
lot of random things that just went up and maybe they’re not going to go up again at the same
rate. So we don’t - and as we get closer to neutral on the interest rate and as we get closer to
balance on the economy and employment, it just gets harder. So I’m not - this is a difficult
situation. We’re coming from a position where we’re somewhere around about balance, maybe a
bit tight, maybe financial conditions are neutral, maybe they’re a bit tight and we’ve just
got to be very cautious. So jumping at one number, I think, would not be the appropriate thing to do.
The Board has quite rightly, I think, has said it does suggest some of the risks are now on the
upside, particularly with some of the downside risks abating a little bit. So their focus now has
moved much more towards inflation and being alert to the possibility that if that really is staying
up then they might have to do something.
Millie Muroi
Hi Governor, Millie Muroi from the Sydney Morning Herald and The Age. You said the RBA largely looked
through the energy subsidies. Is there any concern they’ve still made reading it a bit difficult
or messy? How long might it be now that those rebates are being discontinued before it will be fully
clear how much noise, directly or indirectly, those subsidies might have added to your read on
inflation?
Michele Bullock
I think you’ve sort of almost half answered the question. I think it has been complicated and
difficult to read. The other thing that I find challenging about it is that even though we’re
focusing on underlying, because we think that gives the best underlying pulse, people out there,
what’s hitting them is actual inflation. When the subsidies were there they were thinking prices
aren’t going up too much on electricity. When the subsidy comes off they’ll see the full
force of that. So what people out in Australia are facing and looking at in inflation is not what
we’re looking at which is the underlying pulse of inflation. So I think that makes it
challenging for messaging. I also think it makes it challenging because even though when looking at
the trimmed mean we cut out some of the - at the bottom and top of the distribution, the big
movements, it still impacts the trimmed mean in some way. So it has been challenging. And as this, I
think, all rolls out things will settle down a bit. I’m hopeful too that once we get the monthly
CPIs, and it’s going to take us a while to figure out how to read it and how to use it but
ultimately going forward this is going to be great because before when we only had four inflation
readings a year, that was all we had to go on. Now we will have a bit more of a flavour of momentum.
It’s going to take time. We’re not going to be able to just immediately take them for
gospel but I think it’s going to be better.
David Taylor
Hey Governor, David Taylor from ABC News. Just thinking back on 2025, what was the most challenging
conversation that you had in 2025 and who was it with?
Michele Bullock
The most challenging conversation, you mean personally or - had a few of those.
David Taylor
Because you talk to a lot of people and really important people in this country so I’m just
wondering what was the most challenging conversation and who it was with and why it was challenging?
Michele Bullock
Well, I would say probably one of the more challenging conversations I had has been actually with
some internal staff members about - now, I don’t mean challenging in the sense that I felt in
any sense affronted by it but I’ve been trying to encourage people to speak out and disagree
with me, if they want to, and sometimes that’s meant that people have come up with views and
expressed views that are in very direct opposition to me. I don’t think it was a challenging
conversation in the sense that I had to sort of pat them down or anything but it was challenging to
have people directly challenge your view and you had to think, well, am I hanging on to this view for
the wrong reasons? So it’s probably not –
David Taylor
That was part of your remit, to get that going.
Michele Bullock
That was part of my remit but I’d say, for me, 2025 has seen a bit of a change in the way that
we have had internal conversations and I think that challenge has been good.
Sophia Rodrigues
Sophia Rodrigues from Central Bank Intel. So even if the market and economists can make a reasonable
case for a rate hike say in Feb, they think the RBA won’t hike for four reasons. The first is
the Monetary Policy Board according to them has no appetite to hike.
Michele Bullock
Sorry, who says this?
Sophia Rodrigues
Sorry?
Michele Bullock
Whose reasons are these?
Sophia Rodrigues
These are mine. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Not my view. That is the view of people I talk to.
Michele Bullock
Sorry. I just wanted to clarify. All right.
Sophia Rodrigues
Not my view. Not necessarily my view. The second reason is that if you hike now you are admitting
policy error. The third is the cycle lasts nine months, or you need nine months from Feb to whenever.
And the fourth is that they won’t hike when the Fed is cutting. Do any of these arguments hold
merit? If not, why not?
Michele Bullock
I’ll give you a very general answer which is probably the answer no to all of those questions.
The Board will do what it thinks it needs to do to get inflation back to 2.5 per cent and
it’s uncomfortable. The conversation we had today, they are uncomfortable where it is. And the
point about the Fed well, they’re in a different situation than us and we have a floating
exchange rate so we can set monetary policy for our domestic conditions. So I wouldn’t put that
on the table. The first point was something about the Monetary Policy Board has no appetite. I
don’t believe that at all. Not the discussions I’ve sat in on, I’ll tell you. The
second reason was something to do with admitting that we shouldn’t have lowered in the first
place. I don’t agree with that either because we’re data driven. I say if you look back six
or seven months ago things looked to be travelling in the right direction. It looked it was
appropriate. Data changed, circumstances changed, a lot of the risk that people were really worried
about in terms of the world economy has abated. And - so when things change you have to change your
view and it’s appropriate that the Board, I think, is agile and nimble. And so I don’t
subscribe to any of those arguments.
Nasteho Said
Hello, Nasteho Said from Bloomberg News. As data centre investments ramp up in Australia, how
confident are you that it will have a multiplier impact or effect on the economy in the near term,
particularly on GDP, productivity and job creation?
Michele Bullock
Well, big question. So I think the first point a number of people have made this point that the big
investment boom in fitting out the data centres, so not building them but fitting them out, a lot of
that equipment is imported. Obviously you’ll need people to install the equipment and that sort
of thing but I’m not sure how labour intensive actually operating data centres is once
they’re up and running. So there might be a bit of a boost in terms of construction of them,
setting them up and so on. The question about productivity is an interesting one potentially. There
might be advances for productivity, just as people think there might be implications of AI broadly
and if data centres help encourage that in Australia then that might be there. So - but, again, I
think it’s not really - I think our view on the investment figures for September quarter were
that they weren’t adding to demand much because they were importing most of what they were
doing. But there may well be ongoing implications and I think that’s something we have to think
about going forward.
Michael Janda
Governor, Michael Janda from ABC News. The Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates later
this week despite inflation well above its target. Is there a risk that the US exports its inflation
problem globally and do you have any message to FOMC members ahead of their meeting?
Michele Bullock
I don’t have any message for the FOMC members. I wish them all the best in what’s a very
difficult situation for the FOMC. I think what they’re doing is they’re trying to look
through what they see as some temporary tariff-related inflation issues. Now, that’s a fairly
stock standard way to think about it, if you think there’s a price level shift then you
don’t necessarily want to respond with tighter policy. They still think that they’re tight.
They still think that they’re not back at neutral. So I can see the reasons why they would think
that it might be appropriate to reduce the level of tightness a bit, knowing that inflation will come
back down when the tariff effects move out and - but they’re in a difficult situation, of
course, because they’ve got a bit of a lack of data and their labour market data, in particular,
at the moment is quite sparse. They’re going to get some more of that so that will also play
into that. So, you know, I - they’re above their target, yes. Is it going to come down? Their
forecasts are for it to come down, as I said, as some of the temporary effects of tariffs come out.
So I don’t think there’s a risk they’rke going to be exporting inflation anytime soon
but, again, these are some of the risks that all central banks, I think, are aware of and I think the
Bank of England has some of this sort of concern about inflation as well. So there’s still a
little bit out there. Reasonably common across countries is that services inflation has tended to
remain a bit more sticky and persistent than the rest of inflation. So that’s still something
that’s floating around out there.
Tom Storey
Governor, Tom Storey from Nine Radio. We saw the government pull back on the energy bill rebates
yesterday. Have you had to have difficult conversations with the Treasurer about the level of
government spending and are you pleased to see that some of that stimulus is going to be coming out
of the economy into the next year?
Michele Bullock
No I’ve not had difficult conversations with the Treasurer about government spending. I’ve
said a number of times that governments do have a job to do and they have a job to provide services
and infrastructure to Australians. They have a lot of things to juggle and at the same time try and
make sure that they contribute to bringing inflation down which I think is very top of mind for them.
Whenever I speak to the Treasurer he’s always very conscious of that. I think, as I said, the
government at the moment seems focused on what they need to do to continue the fight against
inflation and up until recently I think monetary policy and fiscal policy we were doing a good job.
We’ve got a bit of a pause now to make sure we haven’t eased a bit far perhaps but
we’ll wait and see but that’s part of policy making. It’s a little bit uncertain and
you’ve just got to deal with the uncertainty.
Effie Zahos
Hi Governor, Effie from 9News. I’m hoping you’ll gift me a free Christmas gift and ask two
questions, they’re kind of related.
Michele Bullock
Well, everyone else has so you might as well.
Effie Zahos
Thank you very much and it’s really hard being right at the back. Most of the questions have
been answered. Just playing on the spending. Consumers, I think, would love some clarity around how
much of an impact their spending has, especially coming into Christmas and the silly season and so
on. How much does that play? I mean, I don’t know if you went to the Metallica concert or did
you go to Oasis or Gaga at the moment?
Michele Bullock
I didn’t. I’m going to Boy & Bear.
Effie Zahos
Okay. How much will that come and bite us back in February?
Michele Bullock
Well, these things - people often put a lot of emphasis on big events. I think it’s also true
though that people who are going to these big events are often sacrificing other things to go to
these big events. So if they’re going to spend that much money on an Oasis concert and
accommodation and that sort of thing they might be foregoing some coffees or a breakfast out or
they’ll be doing different things. Not having a new TV, I don’t know. So I think you
can’t think about them in isolation and just say all these big events add to inflation. I
don’t think it necessarily works that way.
Effie Zahos
So you’ve alluded that if the pressure points, you’re being very clear that both inflation
and jobs drive the rate call and you’ve been pretty clear, even today, saying that if these come
in hotter than expected, job numbers this Thursday inflation figures in January then possibly you
will talk about rate hikes in February.
Michele Bullock
Well, if we think that inflation - if the indications from these numbers that come out suggest that
the tightness in the labour market - there is still tightness in the labour market, that inflation is
not trending, not looking like it’s going to trend back down because we need it sustainably back
at 2.5. It got close there for a couple of quarters but that’s not sustainable, right. So that
will be the question that the Board will be considering meeting by meeting. It will consider it in
February and then I think there’s a March meeting, I might be getting confused. So this is what
we mean by data driven. Where we’re looking at the data. It’s looking at the data and then
forecasting forward about what we think that data means for the future. And that’s what
they’ll be focusing on, deciding whether or not we need to increase interest rates again or is
it sufficient, are financial conditions sufficiently tight, just tight enough, to just keep that
downward pressure on.
Effie Zahos
So consumers tread carefully over Christmas?
Michele Bullock
I’m not telling consumers what to do. But we do get - it is very difficult to read some of these
numbers, particularly with Black Friday sales. We hear reports that people are still very value
conscious. So they look for the sales and buy up in the sales. So I think people will obviously be
looking where they can to get good deals and that’s great. But I’m not going to tell people
whether or not to spend. That’s not my business.
Effie Zahos
Thanks, Governor. Merry Christmas.
Michele Bullock
Merry Christmas.
Luca Ittimani
Thanks, Governor. Luca Ittimani from The Guardian. I want to ask about communication. So this year
the Board has done a lot of talking about the risk either side in its statements and you’ve been
a bit hazy in your press conferences intentionally with reason. Today you’ve become a little bit
clearer, it feels, in your communication in telling us what we might expect next year. And also in
today’s statement the Board has dropped references to risks to the downside is always talking
about risks to the upside. How should we interpret that? Are you more confident now? Are you less
uncertain? Or are you more afraid about the upside risks, is it more of a fear that’s driving
that clarity?
Michele Bullock
Thanks, Luca. Everyone interprets the statement in different ways. In fact, the Board members
themselves even had slightly different interpretations of how to read it. The way I would say the
Board is wanting to give the signal that the risks have tilted a bit to the upside. So before where
we thought - if you go back to six or seven months we were a little bit more worried about the
downside. Then we thought things were balanced-ish. Now I would say what the at the same time is
saying we are looking more - we think the risks to the upside are a bit more to the fore now. Hence
no discussion about interest rates cuts. And a bit of a discussion about, we’re not increasing
today but what might we be doing next year if it looks like the inflation risks are realised and it
isn’t coming back to target. So I would say the statement is meant to have its usual cautious
tone because I think the Board has been very consistent over the last year really, 2025, of being
quite cautious. You might recall in July when we didn’t cut rates as people thought we would and
the Board was at pains to say, we want to see data and we want to be cautious. And I think
that’s still the same message but the message that inflation - there’s some signs that
inflation might be a little bit higher than we’re comfortable with, we want people to get that
message.
Luca Ittimani
And just on your own language? [inaudible].
Michele Bullock
Well, do I? I don’t know. I think the message - I think it’s easier to sort of have a bit
more of a firm message when you’ve got a bit more of a clear idea about where the risks might
skew. When you think the risks are balanced on both sides it’s a little more difficult, I think,
to sort of say much more than, well, where we are and we’re going to keep the data. I think now
the message clearly is, well, we actually think the upside risks so we can be a little bit clearer
now, I think. Now, will they actually eventuate? That’s where the data will come out. Yep.
Brandon How
Thanks, Governor. Brandon How from Capital Brief. Before this decision economists were split on where
rates were going. Some saying more cuts to come and others saying a string of rises as early as early
2026. Given that the most recent RBA forecast had assumed at least one rate cut, are those now
redundant or is this uncertainty an indication that economists don’t trust the central
bank’s forecast?
Michele Bullock
Well, let me just say a couple of words about forecasts. Forecasts we have to do them. We all have to
do them. But one thing we know is that they are very uncertain. The further out you go in your
forecasts, the more uncertain they get. You only have to look at our fan charts in our
Statement on Monetary Policy
, which shows sort of the historical errors around the
forecasts to see that it just - they’re called a fan because they get bigger the further out you
go. Having said that we don’t have any choice but to do it because if we didn’t do it we
would be completely backward looking. Right. So it’s up to people whether they trust us but I
think we do an excellent job, the team does an excellent job of trying to distil where we are now
using what we understand about the way the economy works and then trying to forecast that into what
might happen in the future. Sometimes we get it wrong. I think actually in the last year or so
we’ve pretty much got it more or less right so I think they’ve done a very good job. But it
is a difficult thing. I mean, 26 million people and they’re all making their own decisions
and you’re trying to distil that into one little forecast. It’s difficult. So we’ve
got to do them. We know that they’re probably going to be wrong by some margin but the best we
can do is forecast based on historical relationships as well as we can and be ready to move if things
aren’t turning out quite as we expected and understand why they aren’t turning out as we
expected.
Cecile Lefort
Governor, Cecile Lefort from The Financial Review. My question is about the narrow path strategy.
Where do we stand today?
Michele Bullock
Well, I thought I retired that term which was my predecessors. I mean, in a sense the strategy is
still the same. The strategy was always to try and raise interest rates just enough to slow the
economy that would bring inflation down but not result in a large rise in unemployment. Now, we saw a
couple of countries overseas where they took a strategy of raise interest rates high, above
5 per cent quite quickly and their unemployment rates shot up. And now they’ve lowered
their interest rates dramatically down and they’re trying to be accommodative so they can get
the economy moving again. We didn’t have that strategy. We think we’re in a position now
where, as I said, we’re probably close to balance and if the economy starts to take off, and I
think I said this in the Senate the other day, if demand really takes off from here and we’re
already in balance that’s a challenge. So I think we’re still trying to use the same sort
of strategy. We’re still trying to get inflation down at the same time as we keep the
unemployment rate as low as possible because people having jobs is really, really important. But
having said that, ultimately if we don’t get inflation back down to target and inflation
expectations start to rise then that won’t be good for unemployment because we will have to
raise interest rates quite a lot more and we will have to hurt the economy a lot more. That’s
why we’re still on the same strategy but it’s a challenging strategy.
Jonathan Shapiro
Governor, Jonathan Shapiro from The Financial Review. Obligatory market pricing question. The
markets, I think, have a forecasting cash rate of around 4 per cent sometime next year and
we’ve seen the longer-term bond rates, the 10-year bond rate pushed to 4.75 which is as
close to as high as it’s been in the last 15 years. I’m wondering how closely market
pricing reflects or mirrors or is in conflict or in agreement with yours and the RBA Board’s
assessment of the balance of probabilities for interest rates?
Michele Bullock
I usually don’t comment on whether I think the market path is right or not because it sort of
smacks a little bit of forward guidance and you know I don’t do forward guidance. But what the
market is doing it’s reacting to the data, reflecting what they think we will be interpreting
the data to mean and what we might do. So they’re trying to predict our reaction function, if
you like. I have no view on the timeline for the market, in terms of I think they have got some
interest rate increases out sort of in the second half of 2026. I have no particular view on the
timing of the thing but they are right. I think I sort of made this point today. They are right that
the Board is thinking about the upside risks. It will be a meeting-by-meeting decision. Whether it
actually takes - whether interest rates actually go up or stay put or if they do go up they take the
market path, I don’t know. But I think the market is reflecting what they think our reaction
function is. And it’s true that we are a little concerned about where the latest inflation
numbers are and some of the other bits of data, unit labour costs, some of these sorts of things. We
want more evidence. But we are alert and we think the risks have gone to the upside.
Michael Heath
Governor, Michael Heath from Bloomberg News. Just reflecting that this is going to have been an
extraordinarily short easing cycle. I’m just wondering how much of a product is this of an
economy that’s avoided recession, COVID aside, for decades and pulling off a pretty impressive
performance in bringing in a soft landing. Can you sort of speak to the challenging of entering an
economic upswing when you’ve got very low unemployment, you’ve got capacity utilisation
reasonably high and then you’re preparing for the business cycle to sort of take off without
much room?
Michele Bullock
Well, it is - you’re right. It’s very challenging and my colleague Andrew Hauser talked a
little bit about this in a recent speech. A lot of it depends on the supply capacity of the economy
and it’s possible that the supply capacity - some people argue that we’re a little
pessimistic on the supply side of the economy in which case then it might be okay. But we’re
sort of a little concerned that - and this is why the upside risk worry, that we’re already
growing about potential. So there’s not much more room, unless the supply capacity somehow picks
up, there’s not much more room for the economy to grow much more strongly. So it is a challenge.
And I think when we sort of started on this strategy of trying to bring inflation down but not so the
unemployment rate shot up, I think we should it would be challenging and it still is challenging. So
I guess it probably doesn’t really answer your question but I think we’re trying to stay
the course on this but, again, I’ll come back to the point that if it does look like inflation
is not coming sustainably back to the band and it’s going the other direction then the Board is
going to have to take action and it will. Yeah. Thank you. Happy Christmas, everyone.