TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Research Series Examines Stability of Funding Models - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/research/2014/rp140207
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Press Release Research Series Examines Stability of Funding Models February 7, 2014 NEW YORK—The Federal Reserve Bank of New York today released a series of research reports on “funding models,” or arrangements for financial intermediation. The three-part Economic Policy Review series aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the structure and stability of different funding models, as well as an in-depth examination of factors affecting the fragility of these arrangements. The series begins with a paper reviewing the economics literature on the stability of banks and financial intermediaries, including a summary of intermediaries’ role as liquidity provider and the inherent fragility associated with this function. The first report also examines factors that amplify or mitigate fragility of financial intermediaries and funding models. The second report presents case studies of several major financial markets and intermediaries that experienced significant distress during the crisis. For each case, the author discusses the size and evolution of the market, the sources of the disruptions, and the policy responses that were implemented to mitigate distress and make markets and intermediaries more liquid. In the final paper, the authors present an analytical framework to evaluate how the characteristics of a funding model affect its ability to survive stress events. The authors then apply the framework to current policy issues, including the effects of liquidity regulation, discount window policies, and approaches to reforming money market mutual funds, to help evaluate how policy options may affect financial stability. The three reports that compose the series are as follows: Literature Review on the Stability of Funding Models By: Tanju Yorulmazer Case Studies on Disruptions during the Crisis By: Tanju Yorulmazer Stability of Funding Models: An Analytical Framework By: Thomas Eisenbach, Todd Keister, James McAndrews, and Tanju Yorulmazer Special Issue: The Stability of Funding Models » Tanju Yorulmazer is a research officer in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Research and Statistics Group. Thomas Eisenbach is an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Todd Keister is a professor of economics at Rutgers University; James McAndrews is an executive vice president and the director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Contact Media Relations NY.Fed.Media.Relations@ny.frb.org By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map