TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Treasury Hosts Liberty University Summit on AI, Energy, and Emerging Technologies
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sb0484
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

May 1, 2026 Washington, D.C. — On April 27, the U.S. Department of the Treasury hosted Liberty University students and faculty for a Summit on Artificial Intelligence (AI), Energy, and Emerging Technologies. Held during Financial Literacy Month, the event brought together students, government leaders, and industry experts to explore how emerging technologies are reshaping the economy and public sector mission delivery. The summit featured four panels devoted to frontier AI, energy, workforce productivity, and financial literacy. Dialogue centered on advancing AI-driven economic growth, powering the infrastructure needed to scale emerging technologies, unlocking productivity across the American workforce, and democratizing capital and credit. Participants included leaders from the frontier AI, digital infrastructure, energy, and financial services sectors in addition to senior officials from Treasury, the White House, the Department of Commerce, and the Small Business Administration. Panelists underscored the urgency of accelerating U.S. leadership in AI and translating cross-sector innovation into economic growth and national competitiveness. “There has never been a better time to build and innovate in America,” said Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent. “Given the global importance of AI, student engagement is critical as we work to provide the next generation with the opportunity—and responsibility—to help shape how it is used.” “This summit fostered dialogue between students, policymakers, and industry leaders on the future of AI and emerging technologies.” Treasury’s Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer, Paras Malik said. “It advances a shared understanding of how these technologies can be applied to drive meaningful outcomes across the public and private sectors.” The event was live-streamed for Liberty University participants and invited Treasury staff, including members of Treasury’s AI Council. The summit reflects Treasury’s broader efforts to advance innovation, strengthen the U.S. economy, and engage the next generation of leaders shaping emerging technologies. Use featured image Off