TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: The Future of Finance - our response
URL: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/research/future-finance
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

The Future of Finance - our response We explored how the financial system might change over the next decade and what we need to do about it. Related links Related links Fintech Huw van Steenis appointed as a Senior Adviser to the Governor Enable, empower, ensure: a new finance for the new economy - speech by Mark Carney What we're doing Based on our findings, we’re focusing on five key areas. Click on the icons to learn more. 1. We are enhancing the payments system for the digital age 2. We are championing a platform to boost access to finance for small businesses 3. We are supporting the transition to a carbon-neutral economy 4. We are developing a world-class regtech and data strategy 5. We are facilitating firms' use of technology, like the cloud, to increase their operational resilience Why we set up the Future of Finance project “The Bank recognises that a new economy, a new world and new demographics demand a new financial system ... The new finance will develop for the new economy, not in isolation from it.” Governor Carney, Mansion House speech, June 2018 We set up the Future of Finance project to look at how financial services might evolve over the next decade, and what this could mean for everyone who uses, provides or regulates them. We commissioned Huw van Steenis in May 2018 to lead this research and to report his findings and recommendations. We published Huw van Steenis’ report and our response to it on 20 June 2019. Our response Summary table of our response (pdf) Adapting so a new financial system can meet the needs of the new economy infographic (pdf) This video requires third-party analytical cookies to play. Read our cookie policy for more information. Accept cookies and load the video Watch Mark Carney speak on Future of finance What the report found The economy is becoming more digital The use of data is increasing rapidly Economic growth places greater demands on the world’s natural resources and climate A digital economy means use of cash in the UK is declining rapidly Investment in technology can boost productivity and innovation Investment can also help to address the challenges to our climate Back to top This page was last updated 31 January 2023