TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Debt Management Research
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Foreign Participation in the U.S. Treasury Securities Market A brief overview of key data sources on foreign participation in the U.S. Treasury securities market. A Financial System That Creates Economic Opportunities - Capital Markets The U.S. Department of the Treasury report to President Donald J. Trump in response to Executive Order 13772 on core principles for regulating the United States financial system. Discussion of the treasury market begins in page 69 of the report. Treasury Market Conferences Treasury Market Structure Conferences Archive Annual conference conducted by the Joint Staff Agencies (the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission) to discuss topical issues in Treasury market structure. 2019 Annual Conference 2018 Annual Conference 2017 Annual Conference 2016 Annual Conference 2015 Annual Conference Archive of Roundtables on Treasury Markets and Debt Management Treasury hosted a series of roundtables discussing current issues in debt management. 2011 Roundtable Archive 2012 Roundtable Archive 2013 Roundtable Archive 2014 Roundtable Archive 2015 Roundtable Archive Joint Staff Report: The U.S. Treasury Market on October 15, 2014 A report by staff from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on the unusually high level of volatility and very rapid round-trip in prices on October 15, 2014 in the market for U.S. Treasury securities, futures, and other closely related financial markets. Comment Letters Received in Response to the Request for Information (RFI) on the Evolution of the U.S. Treasury Market Structure - Treasury received comment letters in response to an RFI requesting public comments on the evolution of the U.S. Treasury market structure. The RFI followed the next steps identified in the Joint Staff Report. Buybacks in Treasury Cash and Debt Management Securities Lending Facility: White Paper & Comments Treasury’s 2006 paper, “Consideration of a Proposed Treasury Securities Lending Facility,” and comments received in response. Securities Lending Facility White Paper Comments received on Securities Lending Facility White Paper Treasury Uniform-Price Auction Study Uniform Price Auctions Evaluation October 1995 Update of the Treasury Experience October 1998 Joint Study of the Regulatory System for Government Securities The March 1998 Joint Study of the Department of the Treasury, The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to directives of the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993. The study evaluates certain rules for government securities and their effectiveness and impact on the government securities market. It also evaluates the effectiveness of surveillance and enforcement. Joint Report on the Government Securities Market The January 1992 Joint Report of the Department of the Treasury, The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System following the revelations of events following Salomon Brothers and alleged government securities market abuses.