TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Webcasts: ECB monetary policy decisions
URL: https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/press_conference/html/index.en.html
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Press conference PREVIOUS 5 February 2026 19 March 2026 NEXT 0 December 14:45 CET - Frankfurt am Main, Germany Monetary policy decisions Here is what the Governing Council decided about the ECB’s interest rates and instruments at its latest meeting. Press release Monetary policy statement with Q&A Read our explanation of the reasons behind the latest monetary policy decisions. Monetary policy statement Macroeconomic projections Find out more about our expectations of the future state of both the euro area and the global economy. Projections Our statement at a glance This visual statement explains our monetary policy decisions in short and easy-to-understand language. Visual statement Watch the press conference Alternative version (if there are issues with this player) Low-latency audio stream Tune into our low-latency audio stream to listen to the entire press conference with as little delay as possible. We are aware of a technical issue that prevents Firefox from playing the audio stream. Key ECB interest rates With effect from: 11 June 2025 Deposit facility 2.00 % Main refinancing operations 2.15 % Marginal lending facility 2.40 % Past key ECB interest rates Register for the press conference If you are a journalist and wish to attend the next press conference, email us at least ten working days prior to the event. media@ecb.europa.eu Multimedia content and downloads Satellite parameters Get the current downlink parameters for our press conference. Downlink parameters Footage for TV stations Download footage of the most recent press conference in HD format. Video footage Photos See the latest photos from the press conference in high quality. Visit our Multimedia portal SEE ALSO Related content MEETING CALENDAR Find the dates for upcoming Governing Council meetings and press conferences. Governing Council meeting calendar All pages in this section