TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: FAQs
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Home Monetary Policy Federal Open Market Committee Federal Open Market Committee Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below. About the FOMC Meeting calendars and information Transcripts and other historical materials FAQs FAQs FOMC Search Search all FOMC materials FOMC Document Filter Advanced Search Related Content Guide to the Summary of Economic Projections How often does the Federal Reserve collect and publish policymakers' economic projections? What do the policymakers forecast? How far into the future do policymakers forecast? How are the "ranges" and "central tendencies" of projections defined in the summary table? When are the projections collected? How often does the Federal Reserve collect and publish policymakers' economic projections? Economic projections are collected from each member of the Board of Governors and each Federal Reserve Bank president four times a year, in connection with the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC's) meetings in March, June, September, and December. All of the charts and tables that summarize those projections are released shortly after the conclusion of the meeting. Back to FAQs What do the policymakers forecast? Each policymaker provides forecasts for economic growth, unemployment, and inflation conditioned on his or her individual assumption of appropriate monetary policy. More specifically, the numbers that they provide for each of the years in their forecast are: the percent change in gross domestic product adjusted for inflation (real GDP), the unemployment rate, the percent change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE inflation), and the percent change in the price index for PCE excluding food and energy (core PCE inflation). Changes in real GDP and prices are measured from the fourth quarter of one year to the fourth quarter of the next. The unemployment rate is the average civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of a year. Since January 2012, the economic projections have also included information about policymakers' projections of appropriate monetary policy. Specifically, the projections include information about policymakers' projections of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate--that is, the path that each policymaker judges likely to be most consistent with the Federal Reserve's statutory mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices—at the end of the current year and the next few calendar years, and over the longer run. Back to FAQs How far into the future do policymakers forecast? The projections made in March and June are for the current year, for the subsequent two years, and for the longer run. The projections made in September and December are for the current year, for the subsequent three years, and for the longer run. The longer-run projections are the rates of GDP growth, inflation, and unemployment to which a policymaker expects the economy to converge over time--maybe in five or six years--in the absence of further shocks and under appropriate monetary policy. Because appropriate monetary policy, by definition, is aimed at achieving the Federal Reserve's dual mandate of maximum employment and price stability in the longer run, policymakers' longer-run projections for economic growth and unemployment may be interpreted, respectively, as estimates of the economy's longer-run potential growth rate and the longer-run normal rate of unemployment; similarly, the longer-run projection of inflation is the rate of inflation that the FOMC judges to be most consistent with its dual mandate in the longer term. Back to FAQs How are the "ranges" and "central tendencies" of projections defined in the summary table? The bottom of the range for each variable is the lowest of all of the projections for that year or period. Likewise, the top of the range is the highest of all of the projections for that year or period. The central tendency--a narrower version of the range--excludes the three highest and three lowest projections for each variable in each year or period. Back to FAQs When are the projections collected? Initial projections are due by the end of the day on the Friday before the FOMC meeting. Policymakers may revise their projections at any time until the morning of the second day of the meeting. Once the projections are finalized, the charts and figures are assembled for public release. Back to FAQs Back to Top Last Update: January 05, 2024