TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Liquidity, Monetary Policy, and Financial Cycles - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/research/2008/rp080204
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Press Release Liquidity, Monetary Policy, and Financial Cycles February 4, 2008 Note To Editors The Federal Reserve Bank of New York today released Liquidity, Monetary Policy, and Financial Cycles , the latest article in its series Current Issues in Economics and Finance . Authors Tobias Adrian and Hyun Song Shin examine how banks and other financial intermediaries adjust their leverage in response to a rise or fall in the value of their balance sheet assets. They find that these institutions increase their leverage during asset price booms and reduce it during downturns—a pattern of behavior that amplifies the fluctuations of the financial cycle. The tool that the institutions use to adjust their leverage is collateralized borrowing or, more specifically, the repurchase agreement (repo). Adrian and Shin suggest that the growth rate of the stock of repos may be a very useful measure of liquidity in a market-based financial system. Finally, the authors show a close correlation between the growth rate of repos and the degree of ease in monetary policy: “when monetary policy is loose, the stock of repos grows rapidly and market liquidity is high; when monetary policy is tight, repo growth is slow and market liquidity declines markedly.” Tobias Adrian is a senior economist in the Capital Markets Function of the Research and Statistics Group. Hyun Song Shin is a professor of economics at Princeton University. Liquidity, Monetary Policy, and Financial Cycles ›› Contact Media Relations NY.Fed.Media.Relations@NY.frb.org By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map