TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Treasury Sanctions Recruitment Network Enabling War in Sudan, Calls for Humanitarian Truce
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sb0457
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

April 17, 2026 Action Marks Three Years Since Start of Civil War in Sudan WASHINGTON —Today, following the third year of the devastating civil war in Sudan between the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the paramilitary group, the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) imposed sanctions on five individuals and entities involved in recruiting and deploying former Colombian military personnel to Sudan to fight on behalf of the RSF. This network has fueled the conflict, which has given rise to one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises and famines. The war has further destabilized an already fragile region, creating conditions for terrorist groups to expand and threatening regional and international peace and security, including the safety and interests of the United States. “It is unacceptable that the leaders of the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces have not committed to a humanitarian truce to address the devastating famine created by the civil war in Sudan,” said Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent . “They must act to end this humanitarian crisis immediately.” The brutal civil war between the RSF and SAF has been marked by widespread displacement, mass civilian casualties, and human rights violations and abuses. Since April 2023, over 150,000 have reportedly been killed, more than 14 million people displaced, and famine conditions have emerged in areas affected by the fighting. The Trump Administration seeks a lasting peace in Sudan and an end to the conflict. The United States calls on the SAF and the RSF to accept and implement an immediate three-month humanitarian truce without preconditions. This truce would facilitate the flow of additional humanitarian aid, ensure the protection and safe passage of civilians, and create space for continued negotiations towards a permanent ceasefire. Additionally, the United States again calls on external actors to cease providing financial and military support to the belligerents. The action was taken pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14098, “Imposing Sanctions on Certain Persons Destabilizing Sudan and Undermining the Goal of a Democratic Transition.” OFAC’s investigation of the individuals and entities designated today was carried out in partnership with the United States Customs and Border Protection, Office of Field Operations, National Targeting Center and Miami/Tampa Field Office. RSF: EMPLOYING FOREIGN FIGHTERS while destabilizing sudan The RSF and its allied militias, led by Mohammad Hamdan Daglo Mousa (Hemedti), who OFAC designated on January 7, 2025 , have repeatedly carried out summary executions, ethnically motivated attacks, sexual and gender-based violence, and torture throughout areas under its control, including in El Geneina, West Darfur in 2023 and El-Fasher, North Darfur throughout 2024 and 2025. In January 2025, the State Department determined that members of the RSF and allied militias committed genocide in Sudan, and in December 2023, the State Department determined that members of the RSF had committed war crimes, crimes against humanity, and ethnic cleansing. Since 2024, hundreds of former Colombian soldiers have travelled to Sudan to support the RSF, serving in combat and technical roles and participating in battles across the country, including El-Fasher. Their involvement has been facilitated by networks of individuals and companies, mostly based in Colombia. Retired Colombian military officer Alvaro Andres Quijano Becerra (Quijano), whom OFAC designated on December 9, 2025 , plays a central role in recruiting and deploying former Colombian military personnel to Sudan. Quijano and his OFAC-designated wife, Claudia Viviana Oliveros Forero (Oliveros), founded International Services Agency (A4SI), a Colombia-based employment agency, which OFAC also designated, that has recruited drone operators, snipers, and translators. A4SI relied on another OFAC-designated entity Panama-based Talent Bridge, S.A. (formerly known as Global Staffing S.A.) to serve as an intermediary between A4SI and the company hiring the Colombian fighters, signing contracts and handling funds to obscure links and reduce legal exposure for A4SI. Fénix Human Resources S.A.S. (Fénix) is a Bogota, Colombia-based employment agency opened by Quijano and Oliveros in February 2025 as a replacement for A4SI. Fénix’s nominal manager is Colombian national Jose Libardo Quijano Torres (Quijano Torres). Jose Oscar Garcia Batte (Jose Garcia Batte) is a Colombian national, former Colombian Army Colonel, and the owner of Bogota, Colombia-based recruiting company, Global Qowa Al-Basheria S.A.S. (GQAB), also known as Mi Futuro Global. Jose Garcia Batte, through GQAB, has knowingly recruited former Colombian military personnel to join Bogota-based companies A4SI and its successor, Fénix , to fight in Sudan for the RSF. Jose Garcia Batte recruited individuals that did not meet the fitness or physical requirements set by GQAB’s clients to join A4SI and continued recruiting for A4SI after learning that A4SI sent their personnel to Sudan to fight for the RSF. Jose Garcia Batte has also recruited former Colombian military personnel to participate in the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, with individuals fighting on behalf of both sides. GQAB’s manager and legal representative is Colombian national Omar Fernando Garcia Batte (Omar Garcia Batte). Fénix is being designated pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14098, “Imposing Sanctions on Certain Persons Destabilizing Sudan and Undermining the Goal of a Democratic Transition,” for being a foreign person who is responsible for, or complicit in, or who has directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Sudan. Jose Garcia Batte is being designated pursuant to E.O. 14098 for being a foreign person who has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, A4SI, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 14098. Quijano Torres is being designated pursuant to E.O. 14098 for being a foreign person who is or has been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of Fénix, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 14098 relating to the tenure of such leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors. GQAB is being designated pursuant to E.O. 14098 for being a foreign person who is owned or controlled by, or has acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Jose Garcia Batte, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 14098. Omar Garcia Batte is being designated pursuant to E.O. 14098 for being a foreign person who is or has been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of Fénix, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 14098 relating to the tenure of such leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors. SANCTIONS IMPLICATIONS As a result of today’s action, all property and interests in property of the designated or blocked persons described above that are in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons are blocked and must be reported to OFAC. In addition, any entities that are owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more blocked persons are also blocked. Unless authorized by a general or specific license issued by OFAC, or exempt, OFAC’s regulations generally prohibit all transactions by U.S. persons or within (or transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests in property of blocked persons. Violations of U.S. sanctions may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties on U.S. and foreign persons. OFAC may impose civil penalties for sanctions violations on a strict liability basis. OFAC’s Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines provide more information regarding OFAC’s enforcement of U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, financial institutions and other persons may risk exposure to sanctions for engaging in certain transactions or activities involving designated or otherwise blocked persons. The prohibitions include the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any designated or blocked person, or the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person. Non-U.S. persons are also prohibited from causing or conspiring to cause U.S. persons to wittingly or unwittingly violate U.S. sanctions, as well as engaging in conduct that evades U.S. sanctions. Individuals located in the U.S. or abroad who provide information about sanctions violations to Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network whistleblower incentive program may be eligible for awards if the information they provide leads to a successful enforcement action that results in monetary penalties exceeding $1,000,000. The power and integrity of OFAC sanctions derive not only from OFAC’s ability to designate and add persons to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List), but also from its willingness to remove persons from the SDN List consistent with the law. The ultimate goal of sanctions is not to punish, but to bring about a positive change in behavior. For information concerning the process for seeking removal from an OFAC list, including the SDN List, or to submit a request, please refer to OFAC’s guidance on Filing a Petition for Removal from an OFAC List . Click here for more information on the persons designated today . ### Use featured image Off