TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: How Did China’s WTO Entry Affect U.S. Prices? - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff_reports/sr817.html
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Staff Reports How Did China’s WTO Entry Affect U.S. Prices? Previous Title: “How Did China’s WTO Entry Benefit U.S. Consumers?” June 2017 Number 817 Revised July 2018 JEL classification: F12, F13, F14 Authors: Mary Amiti , Mi Dai, Robert C. Feenstra, and John Romalis We analyze the effects of China’s rapid export expansion following World Trade Organization (WTO) entry on U.S. prices, exploiting cross-industry variation in trade liberalization. Lower input tariffs boosted Chinese firms’ productivity, lowered costs, and, in conjunction with reduced U.S. tariff uncertainty, expanded export participation. We find that China’s WTO entry significantly reduced variety-adjusted U.S. manufacturing price indexes between 2000 and 2006. For the Chinese components of these indexes, one-third of the beneficial impact comes from Chinese exporters lowering their prices, while two-thirds of the beneficial impact comes from the entry of new Chinese exporters. China’s WTO entry also led other countries that export to the United States to lower their prices, which was partly offset by exit of these exporters. We find that this impact on competitor countries’ prices is primarily explained by the reduction in China’s own input tariffs, so that policy action becomes the largest source of welfare gain for the United States from China’s WTO entry. Available only in PDF Author disclosure statement(s) By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map