TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities The New York Fed is authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to buy and sell agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) for the System Open Market Account (SOMA) to the extent necessary to carry out directives adopted by the FOMC. Dollar roll and coupon swap transactions may also be executed as needed to help facilitate the settlement of outstanding MBS purchases. Since the end of 2008 the FOMC has directed the New York Fed's Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk) to purchase and reinvest agency MBS for the SOMA portfolio on several occasions to implement monetary policy efficiently and effectively. These transactions are executed with primary dealers . In addition to agency MBS, which were first purchased in early 2009, other securities purchases have included Treasury securities , agency debt securities and agency commercial mortgage-backed securities . Additional information on agency MBS operations is available in the FAQs on Agency MBS Operations . Data Agency MBS Operations Includes results for today's and past operations. SOMA Holdings Includes CUSIP-level data and the SOMA Historical Data Export Builder. Transaction Data Includes transaction details. Data are published quarterly, about two years after the transaction was conducted, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act. Exchanges of 45-day Freddie Mac MBS (April-May 2023) Markets Data APIs Schedules Agency MBS Planned Operation Amounts Includes tentative amounts associated with outright operations of agency MBS. Agency MBS Operation Schedule Includes tentative schedules associated with outright operations of agency MBS. Resources FAQs: Agency MBS Operations FAQs: Agency MBS CUSIP Aggregation Announcements Statement Regarding Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Small Value Exercises Mar 3, 2026 Statement Regarding Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Small Value Exercises Nov 5, 2025 Statement Regarding Reinvestment of Principal Payments from Treasury Securities and Agency Securities Oct 29, 2025 Related New York Fed Content Treasury Securities Agency Debt Securities Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements Securities Lending Annual Report on Open Market Operations Related External Content Federal Reserve Board: Monetary Policy Open Market Operations By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map