TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Statistics
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/rates/
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Statistics Find exchange rates, interest rates, price indexes, economic indicators and other statistical information. Daily exchange rates A modern browser with javascript enabled is required to view our charts. Alternatively, the data is available for download in: XML JSON CSV Money market yields A modern browser with javascript enabled is required to view our charts. Alternatively, the data is available for download in: XML JSON CSV Key monetary policy variables A modern browser with javascript enabled is required to view our charts. Alternatively, the data is available for download in: XML JSON CSV Our Valet API is designed to help you integrate your applications and processes with our data. For details, please see our documentation . Daily Digest Get quick access to data on exchange rates, money markets, inflation, interest rates and bond yields. Banking and financial statistics Search our compilation of banking and financial indicators, including the Bank of Canada’s assets and liabilities, credit and monetary aggregates, chartered banks data and selected financial market statistics. Staff economic projections These forecasts are provided to Governing Council in preparation for monetary policy decisions. They are released once a year with a five-year lag. Daily update schedule Daily frequency data series are typically published once each business day at the following times: Exchange rates: 16:30 ET Interest rates: 12:15 ET – 12:30 ET Bonds yields: 09:30 ET – 10:00 ET Treasury bills: 10:30 ET – 11:30 ET Exchange rates Daily exchange rates View the daily average exchange rates. Published once each business day by 16:30 ET. Monthly exchange rates View the monthly average exchange rates. Typically published on the last business day of the month by 16:30 ET. Annual exchange rates View the annual average exchange rates. Published on the last business day of the year by 12:30 ET. Daily exchange rates: Lookup tool Search and download exchange rate data. Canadian Effective Exchange Rates The CEER index is a weighted average of bilateral exchange rates for the Canadian dollar against the currencies of Canada’s major trading partners. Currency Converter Convert from Canadian dollars based on daily exchange rates. Historical noon and closing rates Download our legacy noon and closing rates data. These rates were last updated 28 April 2017 using the Bank’s old calculation methodology, and will not be updated in future. Historical Canadian-Dollar Effective Exchange Rate index Download our historical CERI data. These rates were last updated in January 2018, and will not be updated in future. The Canadian-Dollar Effective Exchange Rate index (CERI) was replaced by the Canadian Effective Exchange Rate index (CEER) as of January 2018. Foreign exchange intervention Updated if and when the Bank intervenes in foreign exchange markets. Interest rates Canadian interest rates and monetary policy variables: 10-year lookup Selected money market and consumer rates for the past 10 years. Selected treasury bill yields 1, 3, 6 and 12 month treasury bill data. Selected bond yields View or download the latest data for bond yields, marketable bond average yields and selected benchmark bond yields. Canadian Overnight Repo Rate Average View or download the latest data for CORRA, Canada’s risk-free rate. Yield curves for zero-coupon bonds Yields on zero-coupon bonds, generated using pricing data on Government of Canada bonds and treasury bills. Money market yields The market in which short-term capital is raised, invested, and traded using financial instruments such as treasury bills, bankers' acceptances, commercial paper, and bonds maturing in one year or less. U.S. interest rates: 10-year lookup U.S. Prime Rate Charged by Banks, Federal Funds Rate, Commercial Paper. Key interest rate: Lookup tool This tool allows you to make side-by-side comparisons of changes to the Bank Rate and the target for the overnight rate over time. Policy interest rate The Bank carries out monetary policy by influencing short-term interest rates. It does this by adjusting the target for the overnight rate on eight fixed dates each year. Price indexes Commodity price index The Bank of Canada commodity price index (BCPI) is a chain Fisher price index of the spot or transaction prices in U.S. dollars of 24 commodities produced in Canada and sold in world markets. Consumer price index 2000 to present: includes CPI-trim, CPI-median, and CPI-common as well as other “core” inflation measures. Indicators Indicators of capacity and inflation pressures for Canada These tables are updated one day after the Bank’s most recent announcement date for the target overnight rate, based on information available up to that date. Quarterly data, with graphs and definitions. Indicators related to market operations A table of indicators related to the implementation of monetary policy that includes the operating band, settlement balances and other Bank of Canada operations. Summary of key monetary policy variables Monthly data, with graphs and definitions. Labour market recovery from COVID‑19 : This page presents indicators that track the recovery of the labour market from COVID-19. Tools and resources Investment Calculator Calculate the effects of inflation on investments and savings Inflation Calculator Compare the cost of a basket of goods and services over time Official International Reserves Access the weekly Reserves data on the first business day following the 8 th , 15 th and 23 rd day of each month. The monthly Reserves data will be posted on the Department of Finance website on the third business day following month-end. Credit conditions Find information that reflects changes in the economy, the influence of monetary policy, and financial market conditions.