TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: New York Fed's Quarterly Report on Household Debt and Credit Shows Signs of Healing in Consumer Credit Markets Since Last Quarter - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/research/2011/an110509
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Press Release New York Fed's Quarterly Report on Household Debt and Credit Shows Signs of Healing in Consumer Credit Markets Since Last Quarter May 9, 2011 NEW YORK—The Federal Reserve Bank of New York released the Quarterly Household Debt and Credit Report for the first quarter of 2011 today, which showed signs of healing in the consumer credit markets. Evidence of improvement includes: an increase in credit limits, by about $30 billion or 1%, for the first time since the third quarter of 2008; a steady number of open mortgage accounts, following a period of decline beginning in early 2008; continued decline of new foreclosures and new bankruptcies, down 17.7% and 13.3% respectively in the last quarter; a 15% decline of total delinquent balances, compared to a year ago; and a broad flattening of overall consumer debt balances outstanding. Non-housing related debt, including credit cards, student loans, and auto loans, declined slightly (less than 1%), driven by a noticeable 4.6% decline in credit card balances. Credit inquiries, an indicator of consumer demand for new credit, came off their recent peak in the fourth quarter of 2010. “We are beginning to see signs of credit markets healing gradually and evidence of greater willingness of consumers to borrow and banks to lend,” said Andrew Haughwout, vice president and New York Fed research economist. “We will continue to closely monitor these trends and see if they are sustained in coming quarters.” The New York Fed releases this information on a quarterly basis in order to help community groups, small businesses, state and local government agencies and the public better understand, monitor and respond to trends in borrowing and indebtedness at the household level. The next release is scheduled for August 8, 2011. About the New York Fed’s Quarterly Household Debt and Credit Report The New York Fed’s Quarterly Household Debt and Credit Report is aimed at helping community groups, small businesses, state and local government agencies and the public to better understand, monitor and respond to trends in borrowing and indebtedness at the household level. The household debt and credit report is updated quarterly and includes such categories as the number of bankruptcies, per capita debt levels, total debt levels and composition of debt, new originations of installment loans, total balance by delinquency status, foreclosures and new delinquencies by loan type for the U.S. and select states. The report is based on data from the New York Fed’s Consumer Credit Panel, which represents a nationally representative random sample drawn from Equifax credit report data. Sections of the report are presented as interactive graphs on the New York Fed’s Credit Conditions web page and the full report is available for download. The next quarterly reports are expected to be released on August 8, 2011; November 14, 2011; February 13, 2012; May 14, 2012. Contact Media Relations NY.Fed.Media.Relations@NY.frb.org Related New York Fed Content Quarterly Report on Household Debt and Credit U.S. Credit Conditions Blog: Just Released: Household Debt and Credit Developments in the Nation and the Region in 2011:Q1 By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map