TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Monetary Policy Report—January 2025
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/publications/mpr/mpr-2025-01-29
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Monetary Policy Report January 2025 Monetary Policy Report—January 2025 Data available as: CSV , JSON and XML Available as: PDF Economic growth has ticked up in Canada, boosted by past cuts in interest rates. In the absence of new tariffs, growth is forecast to strengthen, and inflation remains close to 2%. But the threat of new tariffs is causing major uncertainty. Choose another section to view Overview Current conditions Outlook Global economy Projections Risks Evaluating the potential impacts of US tariffs Recent factors affecting the Canada-US exchange rate Bank of Canada reduces policy rate by 25 basis points to 3%, announces end of quantitative tightening The Bank of Canada today reduced its target for the overnight rate to 3%, with the Bank Rate at 3.25% and the deposit rate at 2.95%. Trade policy assumptions The economic outlook presented in this Monetary Policy Report does not incorporate any new US tariffs, although it does recognize that the threat of tariffs is already affecting financial markets and business decisions. This assumption reflects a situation that is evolving rapidly, along with the high degree of uncertainty around whether wide-ranging tariffs will be imposed and the specifics of those tariffs and any possible retaliation. A detailed discussion of how the Canadian economy could be impacted if significant new tariffs were to be imposed, including an illustrative scenario, can be found in In focus: Evaluating the potential impacts of US tariffs . Overview Inflation in Canada has been around 2% since August 2024. Inflation rates for most major components of the consumer price index are below their historical averages, but inflation in shelter prices is elevated and is easing slowly. Inflation expectations have largely normalized. Inflation is projected to be volatile through March, reflecting the effects of the GST/HST holiday on some goods and services. Inflation is expected to remain near the 2% target over the projection horizon . Growth in the Canadian economy was softer than expected in the third quarter of 2024, but there are signs activity has since gained momentum despite a slowdown in population growth. Past interest rate cuts are contributing to an increase in household spending and housing activity. The labour market is still soft, and there are some signs that wage growth has slowed. The economy remains in modest excess supply. Canadian economic growth is forecast to average 1.8% in 2025 and 2026. Household spending strengthens and is anticipated to remain robust, supported by past cuts to interest rates. Excess supply is expected to gradually dissipate over the projection. The global economy is anticipated to grow at around 3%. Growth in US gross domestic product (GDP) has been strong and is projected to remain so in 2025. It is then anticipated to moderate in 2026. Inflation in the United States has been persistent but is expected to ease through 2025 and 2026. In the euro area, growth is subdued. In China, policy measures are fuelling economic activity in the near term, with a slowdown expected later in the projection. Both upside and downside risks surround the outlook, and the Bank is equally concerned with inflation rising above the 2% target or falling below it. Excluding new wide-ranging US tariffs, the risks to the outlook for inflation are roughly balanced. However, US trade policy has emerged as a major source of uncertainty. The new US administration has threatened significant tariffs on imports from its trading partners, including Canada. This has prompted discussion of retaliatory tariffs. While many details remain unknown, broad-based tariffs would severely disrupt global trade. In Canada, there are already signs that the threat of tariffs is weighing on consumer and business confidence and investment intentions. This threat has also contributed to the recent depreciation of the Canadian dollar. In this Report, the Bank uses an illustrative scenario to explore how a hypothetical set of tariffs and countermeasures could affect economic activity and inflation in Canada. The Bank will continue to consult with other policy-makers, businesses and labour groups and will analyze new information as it becomes available. The Bank’s analysis will be updated as the situation evolves. Current conditions Next The Monetary Policy Report is a product of the Governing Council of the Bank of Canada: Tiff Macklem, Carolyn Rogers, Toni Gravelle, Sharon Kozicki, Nicolas Vincent and Rhys Mendes. In brief: Monetary Policy Report Learn about Canada’s inflation-control strategy, the objective of Canada’s monetary policy and the main instruments used to implement it. Our Valet API is designed to help you integrate your applications and processes with our data. For details, please see our documentation . Bank of Canada reduces policy rate by 25 basis points to 3%, announces end of quantitative tightening The Bank of Canada today reduced its target for the overnight rate to 3%, with the Bank Rate at 3.25% and the deposit rate at 2.95%. Content Type(s): Press , Press releases Monetary Policy Report Press Conference Opening Statement Governor Tiff Macklem discusses the Monetary Policy Report and the key issues involved in the Governing Council’s deliberations about the monetary policy decision. Content Type(s): Opening statements , Press , Speeches and appearances Press Conference: Monetary Policy Report – January 2025 Release of the Monetary Policy Report – Press conference by Governor Tiff Macklem and Carolyn Rogers, Senior Deputy Governor (10:30 (ET) approx.). Content Type(s): Press , Speeches and appearances , Webcasts ISSN 1490-1234 (Online)