TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Treasury Securities - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Treasury Securities The New York Fed is authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to buy and sell Treasury securities for the System Open Market Account (SOMA) to the extent necessary to carry out directives adopted by the FOMC. The New York Fed's Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk) purchases and sells Treasury securities in the secondary market and rolls over maturing Treasury security holdings in the SOMA portfolio at auction, as directed by the FOMC. Additional information is available in our Frequently Asked Questions on outrights and rollovers . Historically, the Desk purchased Treasury securities outright in the secondary market as needed to keep pace with the amount of currency in circulation—traditionally the Federal Reserve's largest liability—which increased over time as the economy grew. Since the end of 2008 the FOMC has directed the Desk to expand the holdings of Treasury securities in the SOMA portfolio on several occasions to implement monetary policy efficiently and effectively. These transactions are executed with primary dealers . In addition to Treasury securities, other securities purchases have included agency mortgage-backed securities , agency debt securities and agency commercial mortgage-backed securities . The New York Fed also provides limited transaction services, including purchases and sales of Treasury securities, to its official sector account holders. These include about 200 central banks, governments, and official institutions, many of whom do not have in-house capacity to conduct trading activity in the Treasury market. Data Treasury Operations Includes results for today's and past operations. SOMA Holdings Includes CUSIP-level data and the SOMA Historical Data Export Builder. Transaction Data Includes transaction details. Data are published quarterly, about two years after the transaction was conducted, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act. Markets Data APIs Schedule Treasury Operation Schedule Includes tentative operations schedules associated with outright operations of Treasury securities. Resources FAQs: Reserve Management Purchases and Reinvestment Purchases FAQs: Treasury Rollovers Announcements Statement Regarding Use of FedTrade Plus for SOMA Treasury Outright and Treasury Buyback Operations Mar 12, 2026 Statement Regarding Treasury Securities Small Value Exercise Feb 23, 2026 Statement Regarding Reserve Management Purchases Operations Dec 10, 2025 Related New York Fed Content Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Agency Debt Securities Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements Securities Lending Annual Report on Open Market Operations Related External Content Federal Reserve Board: Monetary Policy Open Market Operations By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map