TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Economic Fury Targets Iran-Backed Iraqi Militia Commanders
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sb0458
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

April 17, 2026 Commanders Behind Attacks on U.S. Personnel and Interests WASHINGTON —Today, the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) designated seven Iraqi militia commanders responsible for planning, directing, and executing attacks against U.S. personnel, facilities, and interests in Iraq. The individuals targeted in today’s action are leaders of some of Iraq’s most violent Iran-aligned militia organizations, including Kata’ib Hizballah, Kata’ib Sayyid Al-Shuhada, Harakat Al-Nujaba, and Asa’ib Ahl Al-Haqq. These militias operate with near impunity, attacking U.S. personnel and innocent civilians across Iraq, siphoning Iraq’s wealth to finance their terrorist activities, and undermining Iraq’s sovereignty and democratic processes. “We will not allow Iraq’s terrorist militias, backed by Iran, to threaten American lives or interests,” said Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent . “Those who enable these militias’ violence will be held accountable.” Today’s action is being taken pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13224, as amended, which targets terrorists and their supporters, and builds on Treasury’s numerous actions targeting the constellation of Iran-backed terrorist militias that threaten both Iraqis and Americans in the region. Kata’ib Hizballah, Asa’ib Ahl Al-Haqq, Harakat Al-Nujaba, and Kata’ib Sayyid Al-Shuhada were designated as Specially Designated Global Terrorists (SDGT) pursuant to E.O. 13224 and as Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTO) pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. KEY IRAQI MILITIA COMMANDERS Kata’ib Hizballah (KH) has claimed responsibility for numerous attacks in Iraq since its founding in 2006, not only against the United States but also against forces serving in support of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS. The group is ideologically tied to Iran and receives financial and military support from Iran. Ammar Jasim Kadhim Al Rammahi (Rammahi) is a KH operational commander. In this role, he directs KH attack planning efforts and generates targeting information for attacks against U.S. personnel and facilities. He also coordinates the timing and location of these KH operations. Similarly, both Radhwan Yousif Hameed Almohammed (Almohammed) and Hasan Dheyab Hamzah Hamzah (Hamzah) are senior KH officials involved in operations. Almohammed has been a key KH official for several years and coordinated KH operations. Hamzah also coordinates KH operations, including threats to U.S. forces. Asa’ib Ahl al-Haqq (AAH) has claimed responsibility for thousands of attacks against U.S. and Coalition Forces. AAH has been extensively funded and trained by Iran since its founding in 2006. As of March 2026, AAH utilized Iranian drones in order to attack U.S. and Coalition forces in Northern Iraq. Safaa Adnan Jabbar Suwaed is a senior AAH official and military commander, as well as a chief of operations in Salah ad-Din Province, Iraq. Kata’ib Sayyid al-Shuhada (KSS) is supported by Iran with training, funding, and weapons. The group has threatened U.S. and Coalition Forces in Iraq. Khalid Jameel Abed Albakhatra (Albakhatra) and Saeed Kadhim Mukhamis (Mukhamis) are senior KSS officials, with Albakhatra specifically serving as a KSS commander. Husham Hashim Jaythoom (Jaythoom) is a military trainer for Harakat al-Nujaba (HAN). HAN officials have publicly threatened to attack U.S. personnel in Iraq and the region, and HAN has openly pledged its loyalties to Iran at the expense of Iraqi sovereignty. Ammar Jasim Kadhim Al Rammahi, Radhwan Yousif Hameed Almohammed and Hasan Dheyab Hamzah Hamzah are being designated pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended, for being owned, controlled, or directed by, or having acted or having purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Kata’ib Hizballah. Safaa Adnan Jabbar Suwaed is being designated pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended, for being owned, controlled, or directed by, or having acted or having purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, ‘Asa’ib Ahl al-Haqq. Khalid Jameel Abed Albakhatra and Saeed Kadhim Mukhamis are being designated pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended, for being owned, controlled, or directed by, or having acted or having purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Kata’ib Sayyid al-Shuhada. Husham Hashim Jaythoom is being designated pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended, for being owned, controlled, or directed by, or having acted or having purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Harakat al-Nujaba. SANCTIONS IMPLICATIONS As a result of today’s action, all property and interests in property of the designated or blocked persons described above that are in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons are blocked and must be reported to OFAC. In addition, any entities that are owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more blocked persons are also blocked. Unless authorized by a general or specific license issued by OFAC, or exempt, OFAC’s regulations generally prohibit all transactions by U.S. persons or within (or transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests in property of blocked persons. Violations of U.S. sanctions may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties on U.S. and foreign persons. OFAC may impose civil penalties for sanctions violations on a strict liability basis. OFAC’s Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines provide more information regarding OFAC’s enforcement of U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, financial institutions and other persons may risk exposure to sanctions for engaging in certain transactions or activities involving designated or otherwise blocked persons. The prohibitions include the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any designated or blocked person, or the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person. Non-U.S. persons are also prohibited from causing or conspiring to cause U.S. persons to wittingly or unwittingly violate U.S. sanctions, as well as engaging in conduct that evades U.S. sanctions. Individuals located in the U.S. or abroad who provide information about sanctions violations to Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) whistleblower incentive program may be eligible for awards if the information they provide leads to a successful enforcement action that results in monetary penalties exceeding $1,000,000. FinCEN is currently accepting whistleblower tips. Furthermore, engaging in certain transactions involving the persons designated today may risk the imposition of secondary sanctions on participating foreign financial institutions. OFAC can prohibit or impose strict conditions on opening or maintaining, in the United States, a correspondent account or a payable-through account of a foreign financial institution that knowingly conducts or facilitates any significant transaction on behalf of a person who is designated pursuant to the relevant authority. The power and integrity of OFAC sanctions derive not only from OFAC’s ability to designate and add persons to the SDN List, but also from its willingness to remove persons from the SDN List consistent with the law. The ultimate goal of sanctions is not to punish, but to bring about a positive change in behavior. For information concerning the process for seeking removal from an OFAC list, including the SDN List, or to submit a request, please refer to OFAC’s guidance on Filing a Petition for Removal from an OFAC List . Click here for more information on the persons designated today . ### Use featured image Off