TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: URIF Announces First Investment, Strengthening Ukraine’s Security and Unlocking New Emerging Technology for the United States and Allies
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

March 26, 2026 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S.–Ukraine Reconstruction Investment Fund (URIF) today announced that it has approved its first investment aimed at bolstering Ukraine’s security, supporting a sector that will be a cornerstone of Ukraine’s post-conflict economy, and increasing America’s and allies' access to field-tested advanced technology. The joint U.S.-Ukrainian board of directors approved an equity investment in emerging technology company Sine Engineering (Sine). The investment will support Sine’s continued advancements and innovation in radio communication control systems for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). Sine provides important hardware and software for UAVs that support resilient connectivity, navigation, and autonomy in complex and contested environments. "Today marks another important milestone in advancing the historic agreement that Prime Minister Svyrydenko and I signed less than one year ago to establish the URIF, which gives our nation a direct stake in Ukraine’s long-term peace and prosperity.” said Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent . “Both the U.S. and Ukrainian economies stand to benefit from this novel investment partnership. In approving the Fund’s first investment, we are showing the market and the world that the URIF is open for business, catalyzing investment, and delivering on its mandate to build strong foundations for Ukraine’s recovery and future prosperity.” “Ukraine prioritises projects that bring in additional investment and have a real impact on the economy. The Fund is part of a long-term partnership with the United States that brings together investment, technology, and security. Today’s decision marks the first significant step in that direction. Priority sectors include energy, dual-use manufacturing, infrastructure, and critical minerals,” said Yulia Svyrydenko, the Prime Minister of Ukraine. "A year ago, URIF was only a concept,” said DFC CEO Ben Black . “Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, DFC and our partners at Treasury are today announcing our first investment. This is a testament to our ability to move at the pace of the private sector and deploy flexible and innovative financing structures to support Ukraine’s recovery by supporting economic growth. Investing in Ukraine is key to stabilizing the region and will advance economic and national security for both of our countries.” This URIF investment lays the foundation for new private sector-led investment from the United States and allies that will strengthen Ukraine's capacity to defend itself, scale field-proven technology for U.S. customers, and encourage greater UAV development. URIF’s investment lays the foundation for Sine’s continued innovation in UAV technology vital for ensuring the safety and security of Ukraine today while also opening new avenues for broad commercial application post-conflict, including agricultural mapping, industrial inspection, and transportation and logistics. The Fund’s announcement today marks its first investment since its establishment in April 2025. The Fund is identifying and advancing diligence of multiple strategic projects with the aim of securing final investments in 2026. The URIF is a key pillar of the Trump administration’s efforts to deliver on its economic partnership with Ukraine, harnessing American talent, resources, and expertise, to mobilize U.S. and aligned private capital and create strategic investment opportunities for the United States, its allies, multilateral development banks, and other private investors. The Fund is focusing on investments that support supply chain resilience and shared U.S. and Ukrainian economic security and prosperity. For more information and to submit a project proposal, please visit the URIF website: https://urifinvest.com. Use featured image Off