TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Tax Policy
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/tax-policy
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

The Office of Tax Policy develops and implements tax policies and programs, reviews regulations and rulings to administer the Internal Revenue Code, negotiates tax treaties, provides economic and legal policy analysis for domestic and international tax policy decisions, and provides estimates for the President's budget, fiscal policy decisions, and cash management decisions. Data TransParency In the course of providing guidance related to tax statutes, Treasury occasionally performs data analysis to determine certain aspects of tax credit eligibility. This and related pages provide details of such analysis for certain provisions. Administration's Revenue Proposals To accompany the Administration's Budget, Treasury releases the "Greenbook," which provides an explanation of the Administration's revenue proposals. General Explanations of the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2025 Revenue Proposals General Explanations of the Administration’s Revenue Proposals – Fiscal Year 2025 Table Only [Excel Tables] Addendum: Advancing Equity through the Tax Code, Fiscal Year 2025 Tax Expenditures Tax Expenditures describe revenue losses attributable to provisions of Federal tax laws which allow a special exclusion, exemption, or deduction from gross income or which provide a special credit, a preferential rate of tax, or a deferral of tax liability. These exceptions are often viewed as alternatives to other policy instruments, such as spending or regulatory programs. Tax Expenditure Budget for Fiscal Year 2027 [Excel Tables] International Tax Treaties and Relate Documents This page posts the texts of recently signed U.S. income tax treaties, notes, and the accompanying technical explanations as they become publicly available. The current US model Income Tax Convention is also available. Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs) T his page posts the texts of recently signed U.S. Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAS), and related documents. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) This page posts Treasury documents related to the implementation of FATCA, including Model Agreements, recent statements, and press releases. Additional International Tax Documents This page posts additional documents related to International Income Tax, including model agreements, letters to Congress and testimony. Reports A collection of reports produced by the Office of Tax Policy in response to a Congressional Mandate, important issues in tax policy, or major reports on Tax Reform. Tax Analysis Analyses and estimates of the effects of existing tax law and of proposed tax programs, analytical reports, background papers, and the Office of Tax Analysis paper series. Working papers and technical papers can be found here . For help with paying your taxes, tax regulations, and other administrative guidance, please visit the Internal Revenue Service at https://www.irs.gov