TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Monetary Policy Report—April 2025
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/publications/mpr/mpr-2025-04-16
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Monetary Policy Report April 2025 Monetary Policy Report—April 2025 Data available as: CSV , JSON and XML Available as: PDF Overview The Canadian economy ended 2024 strong. However, the escalating trade conflict is diminishing growth prospects. While tariffs are expected to increase price pressures, removing the consumer carbon tax has lowered energy prices. The unpredictability of US trade policy, and the speed and magnitude of the shifts, are making the economic outlook very uncertain. Current conditions Inflation was near the 2% target in the fourth quarter of 2024, and interest rate cuts had bolstered economic growth. But since then, the trade conflict has intensified. Trade uncertainty and tariffs are expected to slow growth and add to price pressures. Assumptions for the outlook scenarios The United States has threatened, imposed and suspended tariffs on its trading partners, including Canada. Many tariffs remain in place, and it is unclear what will happen next. This section outlines two illustrative scenarios for how US trade policy could unfold. Outlook The trade conflict has made the outlook for the Canadian economy highly uncertain. There is a range of scenarios for how US trade policy could unfold, which leads to a wide range of outcomes for Canadian inflation and economic growth. Global economy At the end of 2024, global economic growth was solid, and inflation had eased further toward central banks’ targets. Since then, the United States has imposed large and broad-based tariffs on most of its trading partners. Risks Given the unprecedented shift in the direction of US trade policy, there is considerable uncertainty about how tariffs could impact the economy. The degree to which prices will rise and economic activity will weaken is unclear. In focus How removing the consumer carbon tax affects inflation The removal of the consumer carbon tax will temporarily lower inflation and result in a one-time reduction in the level of consumer prices, mostly reflecting a decline in gasoline prices. Appendix Potential output and the nominal neutral rate of interest Canada’s potential output growth is anticipated to slow due to declining population growth and the ongoing trade conflict. The range for Canada’s neutral interest rate lies between 2.25% and 3.25%. The Monetary Policy Report is a product of the Governing Council of the Bank of Canada: Tiff Macklem, Carolyn Rogers, Toni Gravelle, Sharon Kozicki, Nicolas Vincent, Rhys Mendes and Michelle Alexopoulos. In brief: Monetary Policy Report Learn about Canada’s inflation-control strategy, the objective of Canada’s monetary policy and the main instruments used to implement it. Our Valet API is designed to help you integrate your applications and processes with our data. For details, please see our documentation . Bank of Canada holds policy rate at 2¾% The Bank of Canada today maintained its target for the overnight rate at 2.75%, with the Bank Rate at 3% and the deposit rate at 2.70%. Content Type(s): Press , Press releases Monetary Policy Report Press Conference Opening Statement Governor Tiff Macklem discusses the Monetary Policy Report and the key issues involved in the Governing Council’s deliberations about the monetary policy decision. Content Type(s): Opening statements , Press , Speeches and appearances Press Conference: Monetary Policy Report – April 2025 Release of the Monetary Policy Report – Press conference by Governor Tiff Macklem and Senior Deputy Governor Carolyn Rogers (10:30 (ET) approx.). Content Type(s): Press , Speeches and appearances , Webcasts ISSN 1490-1234 (Online) Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Facebook Share this page on X Share this page on X Share this page on LinkedIn Share this page on LinkedIn Share this page by email Share this page by email