TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Digital Securities Sandbox (DSS)
URL: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/financial-stability/digital-securities-sandbox
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Digital Securities Sandbox (DSS) The Digital Securities Sandbox (DSS) facilitates the use of developing technology such as distributed ledgers in the issuance, trading and settlement of securities in the UK. In this section Gate 1: Who is eligible and how to apply Gate 2: Who is eligible and how to apply Bank of England and FCA joint approach to the Digital Securities Sandbox Digital Securities Sandbox Dashboard Guidance on the operation of the Digital Securities Sandbox Introducing the Digital Securities Sandbox Sarah Breeden, Deputy Governor for Financial Stability, introduces the DSS giving a high-level summary of what it is and why it’s an exciting development for the financial system, the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This video requires third-party analytical cookies to play. Read our cookie policy for more information. Accept cookies and load the video Introducing the Digital Securities Sandbox What is the Digital Securities Sandbox? The DSS is a regulated live environment that has been created to explore how developing technologies could be used by firms to undertake the activities of notary, maintenance and settlement for financial securities either alone, or together with the operation of a trading venue . For example, the DSS will facilitate the issuance, trading and settlement of digital securities in the UK on distributed, programmable ledgers. These activities will need to comply with regulation by the FCA and the Bank. What are its aims? The Bank and the FCA operate the DSS, pursuing three overarching aims: Facilitate innovation: promote a safe, sustainable and efficient financial system. We are enabling the application of new technology to the trading and settlement of securities. Protect financial stability: limits will facilitate safe scaling of business that mitigates risks to financial stability without undermining innovation. Protect market integrity: the regulatory approach will continue to provide for the integrity and cleanliness of UK financial markets. When developing the DSS, a guiding principle has been to ensure the regulatory guardrails put in place are proportionate to the risks posed by business models. This is to ensure regulation does not inhibit innovation to protect financial stability . There are three main examples of this: 1. Limits These innovative technologies are untested in important financial markets at significant scale in the UK and globally. Consequently, live activity in the DSS will be subject to specific limits that have been carefully calibrated based on market analysis for the different asset types in scope of the DSS. 2. Modified and flexible legal regime A modified legal regime, including a flexible set of rules introduced by the Bank , will be in place for the duration of the DSS. This allows the Bank and the FCA to remove legal obstacles and barriers that prevent the use of developing technologies and to adapt those in light of the activities in the Sandbox. 3. Glidepath design The DSS has been designed so that participants can scale their business with access to higher limits as they demonstrate their compliance with the regulatory requirements at each gate (see 'Stages and gates of the DSS for a sandbox entrant' table below ). At the end of the DSS, the intention is that interested participants will have the opportunity to transition to a new permanent regime if the technology is successfully adopted. The experience inside the DSS and feedback from the participants will help shape that regime. The DSS is due to run until 8 January 2029 but may be extended by HM Treasury through legislation if more time is necessary to transition to a new regulatory regime. How might it benefit the wider financial system? The DSS has been created to encourage innovation in financial market infrastructure, most notably through using new technologies such as Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT). The application of such technology could improve the efficiency of ‘post-trade’ processes. By making them faster and cheaper, the adoption of these technologies could, if successfully implemented, lead to material savings across financial market participants, such as pension funds, investment firms and banks. For example, companies that use capital markets to raise finance, may benefit from more efficient and 'deeper' capital markets, where more investor participation could reduce the ease and costs of raising finance through them. To realise these benefits, market participants will be able to interact with firms in the sandbox in the same way as with any regulated firm providing these services. Users of those services will, however, need to be mindful of the potential risks of doing so given sandbox entrants will not immediately be required to meet the same standards of resilience as a fully authorised financial market infrastructure. Stages and gates of the DSS for a sandbox entrant Stage Purpose Legal designation Initial application stage Identify firms eligible to join the DSS None Gate 1 Testing stage Testing stage and engagement with regulators to operate a trading venue or to be a DSD Sandbox entrant Gate 2 Go-live stage Ability to carry out live business under initial limits DSD/ authorised operator of a trading venue Gate 3 Scaling stage Scaling the business with a glidepath to full authorisation of DSDs DSD/ authorised operator of a trading venue Gate 4 Possible new permanent regime Full authorisation to operate outside the DSS for DSDs To be decided/ new category of FMI Which digital securities are in its scope? Activities taking place in the DSS after Gate 2 will be 'live'. In other words, this will involve issuing, trading and settling real digital securities . Those securities can be used in the same way as traditional ones. For example, firms will be able to use the securities issued inside the sandbox in repurchase agreements or write derivative contracts based on securities in the DSS as they normally would any other. The following financial instruments are examples of what could be issued and traded in the DSS: equities corporate and government bonds money market instruments such as commercial paper and certificates of deposits units in collective investment undertakings (fund units) emissions allowances. The trading and settlement of derivative contracts and of ‘unbacked cryptocurrencies’ such as Bitcoin are not in the scope of the DSS. For any enquiries, please contact DSSEnquiries@bankofengland.co.uk . Back to top This page was last updated 23 December 2024