TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Treasury Department Announces New Appointments
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sb0479
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

April 28, 2026 WASHINGTON – Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent announced today key appointments for senior positions at the U.S. Department of the Treasury. James Bacon serves as Senior Advisor to the Secretary. He began his public service in September 2015 as one of the original interns on Candidate Trump’s first presidential campaign. He went on to serve throughout the entirety of the first Administration in a range of roles, ultimately becoming Director of Operations for Presidential Personnel and the youngest commissioned officer in the White House. Following his time in government, Mr. Bacon worked as a Principal at Thiel Capital, where he advised on political engagement and strategy. He later served as a Consultant at The Heritage Foundation, overseeing the development of a comprehensive digital database to support recruitment and talent management for future administrations. Mr. Bacon has also written on governance and public policy for publications, including The Wall Street Journal. Mr. Bacon holds a B.A. in History from The George Washington University. Charlie Bolton serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Macroeconomics. Mr. Bolton began his career in economic policy as a staffer in the U.S. Senate assigned to issues before the Joint Economic Committee, the Senate Budget Committee, and the Senate Finance Committee. He served as the Chief Economist in the Office of U.S. Senator Rob Portman (OH) from 2017-2020. Mr. Bolton then completed his master’s degree studies from the MIT Sloan School of Management, where he was a teaching assistant for the current Deputy Dean of Faculty and Research as well as for the former President of Fidelity Investments. During his time at MIT, Mr. Bolton cross-registered at Harvard Law School to study ERISA Law and wrote teaching notes for MBA students on the economics of stablecoin issuers. Following MIT, he served as a Transactions Advisor to venture capital, private equity, and real estate clients at Kohrman Jackson & Krantz (a corporate law firm). In 2025, Mr. Bolton joined the Administration as a Senior Policy Advisor, first at the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) and subsequently at the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, where he helped implement initiatives to strengthen the U.S. retirement system. Mr. Bolton earned his B.A. in Political Economy from Georgetown University. Francis Brooke will perform the delegable duties of Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. He currently serves as Acting Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, and as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Trade and Development. Prior to joining the Treasury Department, he spent nearly four years as Policy Director for House Majority Leader Steve Scalise. Mr. Brooke previously served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council under Larry Kudlow, where he was charged with running the day-to-day operations of the Council, a 30-person team. In that role, Mr. Brooke helped manage the President’s economic policy agenda, leading the Administration’s efforts to grow the U.S. economy, create jobs, and increase wages. Prior to serving as Deputy Director, Mr. Brooke was Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy managing the Energy, Environment, Transportation, and Infrastructure policy at the White House. Mr. Brooke is a graduate of Northwestern University. Austin Browning serves as Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations. He most recently served in the Executive Office of the President, supporting President Donald J. Trump in the Office of Scheduling and Advance, where he helped plan and execute domestic and international presidential engagements and coordinated logistics, security, and interagency efforts. Mr. Browning began his public service career in 2015 on President Trump’s first campaign for office and has since held roles across national campaigns, the White House, and federal government. Mason Champion serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs. He previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Tax & Budget. Mr. Champion previously served as a Policy Advisor to U.S. Senator and Senate Majority Whip John Barrasso of Wyoming. Prior to his time in the Senate, Mr. Champion served as Legislative Director to U.S. Congressman and House Budget Committee Chairman Jodey Arrington of Texas. Mr. Champion has a B.S. in Economics from Louisiana State University. Sam Corcos serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information Systems and Chief Information Officer. Prior to joining the Treasury Department, Mr. Corcos was the Founder and Chief Executive Officer at Levels, a biotech company. Mr. Corcos holds a B.S. in Economics from Claremont McKenna College. Eric Ettorre serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Trade and Investment. He previously served as Trade Counsel for the Trade Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means, overseeing a broad international trade portfolio, encompassing matters related to U.S.-China policy, tariffs, customs enforcement, supply chain resilience, and other key areas. Before his time on Capitol Hill, Mr. Ettorre worked at an international law firm where he counseled numerous companies and trade associations on legislative strategy and regulatory policy in the areas of trade, financial services, and digital assets. He holds a J.D. from American University Washington College of Law and a B.A. in International Affairs and Asian Studies from The George Washington University. Quinn Gabriel serves as White House Liaison. Ms. Gabriel most recently served as the Deputy White House Liaison at the Department of Energy, where she oversaw the staffing and personnel actions of all political appointees. Prior to her federal service, she served on President Trump’s 2024 Presidential Campaign and served the constituents of West Michigan in Congressman Huizenga’s district office. A graduate of Grand Valley State University, Ms. Gabriel earned her B.S. in Political Science and Criminal Justice. Elliott Yoshio Hulse serves as acting Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs while continuing his service as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, International Affairs. Prior to his return to the United States government, Mr. Hulse most recently served as the World Bank Group’s International Media Lead for Japan, during which he led the Bank Group’s corporate communications team in Tokyo. Before his time in Japan, he served as Communications Aide to David R. Malpass, 13th President of the World Bank Group, managing the President’s executive communications and advising the President on media strategy, public diplomacy, and digital engagement. He has held previous roles with the Treasury Office of Public Affairs, the White House Office of Communications, the Republican National Committee, and the California State Assembly. Born in Shimoda, Japan and raised in Diamond Bar, California, Mr. Hulse is a graduate of UC Riverside and Diamond Bar High School. Gene Lange is performing the delegable duties of the Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence (TFI). He has served as Counselor to the Secretary since February 2025. Mr. Lange has worked in the investment fund industry for over 25 years, analyzing and managing portfolios of publicly listed equities and advising about macroeconomic trends. He has in-depth experience investing in a wide spectrum of global companies, across industries and market caps. Mr. Lange was a Senior Managing Director at Key Square Capital and has also held senior positions at Jafra Capital, Duquesne Capital, and Protégé Partners. He graduated from Yale University. Brandon Mayhew serves as Deputy Executive Secretary. Prior to government service, Mr. Mayhew was an attorney at Sullivan & Cromwell, where he focused on mergers and acquisitions and venture capital. His earlier career experience spans private equity, venture capital, and consulting. Mr. Mayhew holds a J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, an M.A. from the Lauder Institute of Management (University of Pennsylvania), a B.A. from Washington and Lee University, and a DipHE from the University of St Andrews. Aynsley Moore serves as Chief of Operational Strategy, serving in the Office of the Chief of Staff. Prior to joining Treasury, Ms. Moore served as Deputy Chief of Special Events for the 60th Presidential Inaugural Committee, where she oversaw major donor events and logistics during the inaugural weekend. Ms. Moore also served as the Director of Events for the Republican National Committee and Trump 47 Committee, a Joint Fundraising Committee formed for the Trump Campaign. In this role she led the end-to-end execution of all major donor events throughout the nation, orchestrating high-profile engagements that strengthened relationships with key supporters and stakeholders. Earlier in her tenure at the Republican National Committee, Ms. Moore worked closely with the RNC Chairwoman and Chief of Staff, supporting executive operations. Ms. Moore received her B.A. in Politics and International Affairs from Furman University. Kirstin Olson serves as Deputy Chief of Staff for Scheduling. Most recently, she served as Director of Scheduling for the Vice President of the United States, managing both daily and long-term scheduling strategy for one of the most complex executive calendars in government. Previously, Ms. Olson held senior scheduling roles in the U.S. Senate, supporting principal-level officials in fast-paced environments that required precision, confidentiality, and sound decision-making. Ms. Olson holds a B.A. in Political Science and American Studies from Christopher Newport University. Samantha Schwab serves as Principal Deputy Chief of Staff. She has served as Deputy Chief of Staff at the U.S. Department of the Treasury since January 2025. Prior to her service at the Treasury Department, Ms. Schwab worked on Trump-Vance Transition Team and for Kalshi Inc. During President Trump’s first term, she worked in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs. Ms. Schwab holds a B.A. in Economics from Stanford University and an MBA from Stanford Graduate School of Business. Christina Skinner serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). She is on leave from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania where she is an Associate Professor with tenure. Ms. Skinner is an expert on central banking and financial policy, with an international and comparative focus. She previously worked in the Bank of England’s Legal Directorate. Ms. Skinner has a J.D. from Yale Law School and an A.B. from Princeton University School of Public and International Affairs, where she also holds the equivalent of a minor in Spanish Language and Culture and European Politics and Society. Don Snyder serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy, Strategic Initiatives, and Tax Administration. He previously served in Treasury’s Office of Tax Policy as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary. Prior to Treasury, Mr. Snyder was Tax Counsel and Senior Tax & Oversight Counsel on the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance, advising the Chairman on tax policy and oversight, including energy and tax administration. He also held roles at Federal Policy Group, Bank of America, and the U.S. Tax Court. Mr. Snyder holds an LL.M. in Taxation from NYU, a J.D. from UCLA, and an A.B. from Princeton. Kyle Smithwick serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Oversight. Most recently, Mr. Smithwick served as the Chief Counsel for Chairman French Hill at the House Financial Services Committee. Prior to his time as Chief Counsel, Mr. Smithwick served as the Chief Oversight Counsel for the Committee. He previously worked for then-Ranking Member Jim Jordan at the Judiciary Committee and the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. During his time in the House of Representatives Mr. Smithwick led a wide variety of congressional investigations. Kyle was born and raised in eastern North Carolina. He graduated from East Carolina University where he currently serves as a member of the ECU Board of Visitors. Mr. Smithwick earned his J.D. from Charleston School of Law and an LL.M. in National Security and Foreign Policy Law from The George Washington University Law School. Jeremy Wiggins serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Investment, Energy, and Infrastructure. Mr. Wiggins previously served as Senior Advisor in Treasury’s Office of International Affairs. Prior to joining the Treasury Department, Mr. Wiggins was a Vice President at Blackstone. He previously served as an Advisor to the President of the World Bank Group and an Associate Officer in the Executive Office of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. During President Trump’s first term, Mr. Wiggins served as Associate Director at the White House National Economic Council, where he helped develop and coordinate the Administration's economic policies. He began his career in the Carlyle Group's fund management division. Mr. Wiggins holds a B.S. from the University of Missouri and an MBA from New York University, Stern School of Business. Nathan Wingfield serves as the Director of Policy and Planning. Prior to this role, he served as Special Assistant to the Secretary. Prior to joining the Treasury Department, Mr. Wingfield served as a Special Assistant in the United States Senate. Before government service, Mr. Wingfield held a variety of roles in political fundraising and development. Mr. Wingfield holds a B.S. in Finance from the University of Arkansas. He is a native of Stilwell, Kansas. ### Use featured image Off