TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Monetary Policy Report—October 2024
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/publications/mpr/mpr-2024-10-23
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Monetary Policy Report October 2024 Monetary Policy Report—October 2024 Data available as: CSV , JSON and XML Available as: PDF Monetary policy has worked to reduce price pressures in the Canadian economy. Inflation is now around 2% and is expected to remain near the middle of the Bank of Canada’s control range of 1% to 3% over the projection. Choose another section to view Overview Current conditions Outlook Global economy Projections Risks The factors behind the rise in unemployment How the frequency of price changes affects inflation Bank of Canada reduces policy rate by 50 basis points to 3¾% The Bank of Canada today reduced its target for the overnight rate to 3¾%, with the Bank Rate at 4% and the deposit rate at 3¾%. Overview Consumer price index (CPI) inflation has fallen and is now around 2%. The recent decline in inflation reflects both lower energy prices and weaker underlying inflationary pressures. Overall, inflation is near target, but the distribution of inflation rates across CPI components remains wider than usual. Over the projection horizon, inflation is expected to remain close to the 2% target. Core inflation is forecast to decline gradually. There are both upside and downside risks to the Bank of Canada’s outlook for inflation, and the Bank is equally concerned with inflation rising above the target or falling below it. The Canadian economy has evolved broadly as anticipated. Relative to the July forecast , growth in the second quarter was slightly stronger than expected, while the third quarter looks weaker. Gross domestic product (GDP) per person continues to decline. Energy exports are rising, and growth in both business investment and government spending is slowing. The Canadian economy continues to be in excess supply. The labour market has softened, with increases in unemployment concentrated among newcomers and youth. Wage growth remains elevated relative to productivity. Canada’s economic growth is expected to pick up gradually and average 2¼% over 2025 and 2026. Consumer spending and business investment are anticipated to strengthen, supported by decreases in interest rates. This forecast reflects the net effect of slower increases in population and rising growth in consumption per person. Export demand is also projected to remain strong. The global economy is expected to grow at around 3% over the projection horizon. GDP growth in the United States is strong, but the pace of activity is anticipated to slow. In the euro area, growth remains subdued but is projected to rise gradually. Inflation in advanced economies is expected to be close to central bank targets. In China, economic activity has slowed because of weak domestic demand amid the ongoing property crisis. New stimulus measures should stem further weakness. Weak growth in China has weighed on the demand for oil. Global oil prices have decreased and remain volatile amid concerns over supply and demand and the conflict in the Middle East. Current conditions Next The Monetary Policy Report is a product of the Governing Council of the Bank of Canada: Tiff Macklem, Carolyn Rogers, Toni Gravelle, Sharon Kozicki, Nicolas Vincent and Rhys Mendes. In brief: Monetary Policy Report Learn about Canada's inflation-control strategy, the objective of Canada’s monetary policy and the main instruments used to implement it. Our Valet API is designed to help you integrate your applications and processes with our data. For details, please see our documentation . Bank of Canada reduces policy rate by 50 basis points to 3¾% The Bank of Canada today reduced its target for the overnight rate to 3¾%, with the Bank Rate at 4% and the deposit rate at 3¾%. Content Type(s): Press , Press releases Monetary Policy Report Press Conference Opening Statement Governor Tiff Macklem discusses the Monetary Policy Report and the key issues involved in the Governing Council’s deliberations about the monetary policy decision. Content Type(s): Opening statements , Press , Speeches and appearances Press Conference: Monetary Policy Report – October 2024 Release of the Monetary Policy Report – Press conference by Governor Tiff Macklem and Carolyn Rogers, Senior Deputy Governor (10:30 (ET) approx.). Content Type(s): Press , Speeches and appearances , Webcasts ISSN 1490-1234 (Online)