TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities Effective March 23, 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) directed the Open Market Trading Desk (the Desk) at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to purchase agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (agency CMBS) on behalf of the System Open Market Account (SOMA). The Desk purchased in the open market agency CMBS secured primarily by multifamily home mortgages that are guaranteed fully as to principal and interest by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae and that the Desk had determined were suitable for purchase. Effective November 4, 2021, the Desk is no longer directed to purchase agency CMBS to sustain smooth functioning. On March 24, 2020, the New York Fed retained BlackRock Financial Markets Advisory as a third-party vendor to operationalize these purchases and transact with approved counterparties on behalf of the SOMA. BlackRock was selected on a short-term basis to serve as an investment manager after considering their expertise in trading and analyzing agency CMBS in the secondary market, and robust operational and technological capabilities. On May 2, 2022, the investment management contract with Blackrock was terminated. A copy of that agreement is available on the vendor information webpage . Frequently Asked Questions Program Terms and Conditions Approved Counterparties Data Agency CMBS Operations Includes results for past operations. SOMA Holdings Includes CUSIP-level data and the SOMA Historical Data Export Builder. Transaction Data Includes transaction details. Data are published quarterly, about two years after the transaction was conducted, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act. Historical Prices Paid (March 2020-March 2021) Markets Data APIs Schedule Agency CMBS Operation Schedule Announcements Statement Regarding Reinvestment of Principal Payments from Treasury Securities and Agency Securities Oct 29, 2025 By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map