TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Interest rates and Bank Rate: our latest decision
URL: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/monetary-policy/the-interest-rate-bank-rate
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Interest rates and Bank Rate: our latest decision Bank Rate affects other interest rates in the economy – we use this as a tool to keep inflation stable Related links Related links Borrowing calculator Savings calculator Monetary Policy Reports Current Bank Rate 3.75% Next due: 30 April 2026 Current inflation rate 3% Target: 2% Our latest decision: interest rate held at 3.75% War in the Middle East has led to energy price rises Inflation will be higher than expected this year We are monitoring the situation very closely Published on 19 March 2026 The Monetary Policy Committee is responsible for maintaining monetary stability by working to keep inflation low and stable. It meets eight times a year to decide what Bank Rate is needed to return inflation to – or keep it at – the 2% target over time. Key points: we have held Bank Rate at 3.75% – after cutting it six times since August 2024 war in the Middle East has disrupted the transportation and supply of energy, raising its price; this will push up households’ fuel and utility prices, and companies’ costs so, inflation will be higher than expected, at least in the short term – and the impact will be greater the longer the war and its effect on the global energy supply goes on higher energy costs could also slow down the economy as people and businesses will have less money to spend on other things – the MPC is assessing what this will mean for inflation monetary policy cannot affect global energy prices; but we will make sure that, as we adjust to them, we do so in a way that achieves the 2% inflation target sustainably we are monitoring the situation very closely and will do what is necessary to make sure inflation stays on track to meet the target in the medium term Find out more Read the latest Monetary Policy Summary and Minutes Read our explainer on interest rates This video requires third-party analytical cookies to play. Read our cookie policy for more information. Accept cookies and load the video MPC decision, March 2026 What are interest rates? Interest is what you pay for borrowing money and what banks pay you for saving money with them. If you are borrowing money, the interest rate (or lending rate) is the amount you are charged for doing so. If you are a saver, the interest rate (or savings rate) tells you how much money will be paid into your account. Both are expressed as a percentage of the total amount you have borrowed or saved. So, if you borrowed £100 with a 1% lending rate, you’d have to pay £101 a year later. If you put £100 into a savings account with a 1% interest rate, you’d have £101 a year later. Latest and upcoming MPC dates What is Bank Rate? It is the core interest rate in the UK and it is our job to set it. It is the rate of interest we pay to commercial banks, building societies and financial institutions that hold money with us. It is also the rate we charge on loans we may make to them. It, therefore, affects their own lending and savings rates. For example, when we raise the Bank Rate, banks will usually increase how much they charge their customers on loans and the interest they offer on savings. And the reverse if we lower it. Glossary Bank Rate over time Official Bank Rate history data from 1694 How do interest rates affect inflation? Interest rates influence how much people spend, and that affects how shops and businesses set their prices. Higher interest rates mean higher payments on many mortgages and loans, meaning people must spend more on them and less on other things. Saving becomes more attractive because the returns are higher and it becomes more expensive to take out a loan. These things all discourage consumers and businesses from spending. When customers spend less, businesses are less willing or able to raise their prices. When prices don’t go up so quickly, inflation falls. Lower interest rates can have the reverse effect. If payments on mortgages and loans go down, people will have more money to spend on other things. Savers will get a smaller return and, therefore, may feel less motivated to put their money away. It will be also cheaper for potential borrowers to take out a loan – and use that money to make big purchases. All of these factors encourage spending. When people spend more, this means demand is high. And when demand is high, businesses often raise their prices, pushing up inflation. Read our explainers to find out more about inflation and interest rates Monetary Policy Committee announcements News // Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 19 March 2026 Bank Rate maintained at 3.75% - March 2026... Bank Rate maintained at 3.75% - March 2026 Monetary Policy Summary and Minutes Publication // Monetary Policy Report (MPR) 05 February 2026 Monetary Policy Report - February 2026 Monetary Policy Report - February 2026 News // Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 05 February 2026 Bank Rate maintained at 3.75% - February... Bank Rate maintained at 3.75% - February 2026 Monetary Policy Summary and Minutes News // Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 18 December 2025 Bank Rate reduced to 3.75% - December 2025... Bank Rate reduced to 3.75% - December 2025 Monetary Policy Summary and Minutes View more Monetary Policy Committee announcements Back to top This page was last updated 19 March 2026