TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: The Pre-Crisis Monetary Policy Implementation Framework - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff_reports/sr809.html
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Staff Reports The Pre-Crisis Monetary Policy Implementation Framework March 2017 Number 809 Revised May 2018 JEL classification: E52, E58, N10 Authors: Alexander Kroeger, John P. McGowan, and Asani Sarkar This article describes the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy operating framework prior to the expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet during the financial crisis. To implement the Fed’s mandate of promoting price stability consistent with full employment, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) sets a target for the overnight rate in the federal funds market, where banks trade reserve balances. In the pre-crisis framework, aggregate reserves were scarce such that relatively small changes in the level of reserves would affect rates in the fed funds market. The New York Fed’s open market trading desk (“the Desk”) forecasted demand for and supply of reserves on a daily basis, and then conducted repo operations with primary dealers to supply enough reserves to maintain the equilibrium rate close to its target. The Desk was successful in achieving this objective; the fed funds rate generally remained close to its target, and any deviations were quickly corrected. However, the pre-crisis operating procedures deployed were more complex and opaque than alternative operating frameworks, required substantial intraday overdrafts from the Fed to meet banks’ short-term payment needs, and had to be abandoned once the Fed’s balance sheet expanded in response to the financial crisis. Since the crisis, the Desk has successfully controlled the policy rate using a new framework, suggesting that effective monetary control may be achieved through a different framework. Available only in PDF Author disclosure statement(s) By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map