TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: The Economy, Plain and Simple
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/publications/the-economy-plain-and-simple
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

The Economy, Plain and Simple Explaining economic issues that matter to you Complex concepts and current economic topics made simple—expand your economic knowledge with these short articles and engaging visuals. Submit The evolution of how we pay for things New technologies new payments possibilities. Learn more about how these innovations can make purchases easier, but also introduce new risks. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple September 12, 2025 How economic uncertainty disrupts investment Business investment plays a pivotal role in economic growth. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple July 17, 2025 Price check: Inflation in Canada Why prices change, and what it means for the economy. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple March 10, 2025 Learning more about Indigenous economies Indigenous businesses make a valuable contribution to Canada’s economy, but we still have much to learn about what makes them distinct. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple November 27, 2024 How high productivity helps fight inflation Higher productivity helps keep prices down and wages up. It gives workers more money to spend and increases the value they get when they spend it. And it allows businesses to weather cost increases without having to raise prices. All together, these factors drive economic growth. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple August 27, 2024 What drives up the price of groceries Weather, energy prices, and labour and import costs all contribute to higher grocery prices Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple July 9, 2024 What labour force participation tells us about the economy Labour force participation tells us how many people are active in the labour market and how many have dropped out of it. It is just one piece of a larger puzzle, but it is essential to understanding what is happening in the labour market overall. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple June 26, 2024 What you pay for at the pump Several factors help set gasoline prices: the costs of crude oil, refining, transporting, retailing and marketing gas, as well as taxes. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple June 19, 2024 How higher interest rates affect inflation When the Bank of Canada changes its policy interest rate, it affects every part of the economy – but that does not happen all at once. Learn more about how raising and lowering interest rates takes effect through the monetary policy transmission mechanism. Content Type(s): Publications , The Economy, Plain and Simple December 21, 2023 See More Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Facebook Share this page on X Share this page on X Share this page on LinkedIn Share this page on LinkedIn Share this page by email Share this page by email