Macroprudential Bulletin Our Macroprudential Bulletin provides insight into the work we’re currently doing in the field of macroprudential policy. Our goal is to raise awareness of macroprudential policy issues in the euro area by making our ongoing work and thinking in this field more transparent, and to encourage broader discussion on these key issues. We aren’t trying to be transparent about our work just for the sake of it. This is also an opportunity to invite you to share your views with us by sending your feedback to ecb.macroprudential.bulletin@ecb.europa.eu . You can also send us an email if you want to be notified about future issues of the Macroprudential Bulletin. April 2026 Issue 33 O brave new world, that has such digitalisation in it The 33rd Macroprudential Bulletin examines Europe’s evolving digital finance landscape, focusing on how tokenisation and distributed ledger technology may enhance EU capital markets. It underscores that the potential benefits can only be realised safely if European policy adapts, addressing key challenges and making use of opportunities. Explore tokenisation in EU capital markets Articles Tokenisation and the Eurosystem’s role in shaping an efficient digital capital market This article explores the benefits of tokenisation across the asset life cycle. Bringing central bank money into the DLT ecosystem and scaling tokenisation could boost capital markets, strengthen monetary sovereignty and help advance the savings and investments union. Tokenisation and the Eurosystem Tokenised bonds: assessing efficiency and liquidity in a nascent market This article looks into the transformative potential of tokenisation and how it can reshape EU bond markets. It investigates empirically whether the tokenisation of bonds – while still at an early stage – improves bond issuance efficiency and market liquidity. Do tokenised bonds fare better? Find out more Tokenised money market funds: new technology, familiar risks? This article investigates tokenised money market funds – their design, use cases and risks – and looks at how they compare with their traditional counterpart and stablecoins. It highlights the financial stability implications of the tokenised funds and their integration into evolving financial markets. Tokenised money market funds: read more Euro stablecoins and their potential impact on sovereign bond markets This article examines how the growth of euro-denominated stablecoins could affect sovereign debt demand depending on the issuer, reserve assets and use case. Deposit requirements may act as a buffer but could also transmit stress to the banking system. The impact of euro stablecoins on bonds WANT TO LEARN MORE? CHECK OUT OUR PREVIOUS RELEASES 13 April 2026 Euro stablecoins and their potential effect on sovereign bond markets 13 April 2026 Tokenised money market funds: new technology, familiar risks? 13 April 2026 Towards an efficient and integrated digital capital market in Europe: the role of tokenisation and the Eurosystem’s policy response 13 April 2026 Tokenised bonds: assessing efficiency and liquidity in a nascent market 13 April 2026 O brave new world, that has such digitalisation in it 19 November 2025 Informing the positive neutral countercyclical capital buffer using stress test data 19 November 2025 A framework to assess the severity of adverse scenarios in EU-wide stress tests 19 November 2025 Integrating climate risk into the 2025 EU-wide stress test: the effects of climate risks for firms 19 November 2025 Integrating contagion risk into the 2025 EU-wide stress test: a system-wide analysis with amplification effects between banks and non-banks 19 November 2025 Simulating dynamic balance sheet reactions and macroprudential policy using the 2025 EU-wide stress test SHOW ALL RELEASES All pages in this section