TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Monetary Policy Report—October 2025
URL: https://www.bankofcanada.ca/publications/mpr/mpr-2025-10-29
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Monetary Policy Report October 2025 Monetary Policy Report—October 2025 Data available as: CSV , JSON and XML Available as: PDF Overview The Canadian economy is adjusting to steep US tariffs on several industries and coping with elevated uncertainty. Tariffs have led to a fall in the demand for Canadian goods, affecting the broader economy. The reconfiguration of global trade and domestic production is also leading to higher costs. Total inflation has been around 2%, while underlying inflation has continued to be about 2½%. Current conditions Canadian economic growth has slowed, reflecting the disruptive effects of US tariffs and a decline in population growth. Exports and business investment have slumped. After being close to 2% for several months, CPI inflation was 2.4% in September. Tariff and other assumptions Many countries have signed new trade agreements with the United States. US tariffs continue to be in flux, and the future of trade in North America remains uncertain. Outlook The ongoing trade conflict is fundamentally reshaping Canada’s economy and will have a lasting negative impact on economic activity. At the same time, the reconfiguration of global trade and domestic production is putting upward pressure on costs. Reflecting these two competing forces, inflation remains near the 2% target over the projection horizon. Global economy Global growth has been resilient. But the historic rise in US tariffs is reshaping global trade, weighing on prospects for global growth and pushing up inflation in the United States. Projections Economic growth in Canada is projected to strengthen from around 0.75% in the second half of 2025, with annual growth averaging 1.4% over 2026 and 2027. Inflation is expected to remain around 2% over the projection horizon. Risks Risks related to Canada’s trade relationship with the United States remain elevated. The outlook could also be affected by risks that are not directly related to tariffs. In focus Assessing underlying inflation The goal of monetary policy is to keep total inflation close to the 2% target. But inflation can be volatile, and it takes time for changes to interest rates to filter through the economy. This is why, when setting policy, it is important to distinguish between temporary movements in inflation and lasting ones. Shifts in cost pressures Cost pressures are expected to ease. But businesses continue to face high input costs due to US tariffs and the broader reconfiguration of global trade. The Monetary Policy Report is a product of the Governing Council of the Bank of Canada: Tiff Macklem, Carolyn Rogers, Toni Gravelle, Sharon Kozicki, Nicolas Vincent, Rhys Mendes and Michelle Alexopoulos. In brief: Monetary Policy Report Learn about Canada’s inflation-control strategy, the objective of Canada’s monetary policy and the main instruments used to implement it. Our Valet API is designed to help you integrate your applications and processes with our data. For details, please see our documentation . Bank of Canada lowers policy rate to 2¼% The Bank of Canada today reduced its target for the overnight rate by 25 basis points to 2.25%, with the Bank Rate at 2.5% and the deposit rate at 2.20%. Content Type(s): Press , Press releases Monetary Policy Report Press Conference Opening Statement Governor Tiff Macklem discusses the Monetary Policy Report and the key issues involved in the Governing Council’s deliberations about the monetary policy decision. Content Type(s): Opening statements , Press , Speeches and appearances Press Conference: Monetary Policy Report – October 2025 Release of the Monetary Policy Report – Press conference by Governor Tiff Macklem and Senior Deputy Governor Carolyn Rogers (10:30 (ET) approx.). Content Type(s): Press , Speeches and appearances , Webcasts ISSN 1490-1234 (Online) Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Facebook Share this page on X Share this page on X Share this page on LinkedIn Share this page on LinkedIn Share this page by email Share this page by email