TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Research papers
URL: https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/research/html/index.en.html
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Research papers By publishing papers, our researchers create links to the academic community, sparking discussion and debate on topics of relevance to the ECB. This feeds back into the research conducted by our staff, further strengthening the foundations on which future ECB decisions are made.. All our research products have an editorial board that ensures the research is of high quality. Staff submit their papers and those that meet the required standards are published. STRATEGY REVIEW We have published several occasional papers which provided input for our strategy review. Find out more Working papers Our working papers share economic research relevant to the ECB’s tasks and functions. We publish them to stimulate discussion. Read our latest working papers Discussion papers Our discussion papers are working papers on policy relevant topics. They are more broadly accessible and offer a more balanced perspective than the working papers. Read our latest discussion papers Occasional papers Our occasional papers cover work on subjects related to our main tasks and functions and are aimed at a broad audience that has some prior knowledge of the topic. Have a look at our occasional papers Legal working papers Our legal working papers address experts. They aim to stimulate discussion and contribute to the development of the different fields of law relevant to the ECB's work. Read our latest legal working papers Statistics papers Our statistics papers cover methodological and conceptual issues related to central banking statistics and new statistical topics and techniques. Find out more WANT TO LEARN MORE? CHECK OUT OUR LATEST PAPERS 31 March 2026 Assessing the impact of the EU’s Recovery and Resilience Facility on institutional quality: a Bayesian synthetic control approach 31 March 2026 Global implications of export controls on rare earths: a model-based assessment 30 March 2026 Severe weather and financial (in)stability 30 March 2026 One market, one supervision - Rethinking the supervisory landscape for a truly integrated capital market in Europe 27 March 2026 Synthetic, but how much risk transfer? 27 March 2026 Securities losses and the bank collateral channel of monetary transmission 26 March 2026 Who to regulate? Identifying actors within DeFi’s governance 26 March 2026 A quantile probability model for sectoral corporate defaults in Europe 25 March 2026 Digital banking and the evolving monetary policy transmission 25 March 2026 Repo market networks: dynamics under financial stress SHOW ALL PUBLICATIONS NOT AN EXPERT? CHECK OUT OUR EXPLAINER LEARN MORE Why does the ECB conduct research? All pages in this section