TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Securities Lending - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Securities Lending The New York Fed is authorized and directed by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to lend Treasury and agency debt securities from the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio to primary dealers on a temporary basis. These operations promote the smooth clearing of Treasury and agency debt securities in support of monetary policy implementation. Securities loans are awarded to primary dealers that have elected to participate in the program based on competitive bidding in a multiple price auction held each business day at noon. Participation by primary dealers is entirely voluntary and summary results are released to the public following each day's auction. Additional information on securities lending operations, including operational questions that primary dealers may have, is available in our Frequently Asked Questions . Data Securities Lending Operations Includes results for today's and past operations. Transaction Data Includes transaction details. Data are published quarterly, about two years after the transaction was conducted, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act. Markets Data APIs Resources Securities Lending Program Terms and Conditions FAQs: Securities Lending Program Announcements Statement Regarding Open Market Desk Operations on Friday, April 3, 2026 Mar 12, 2026 Statement Regarding Securities Lending Small Value Exercise Oct 30, 2025 Related New York Fed Content Treasury Securities Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Agency Debt Securities Repo and Reverse Repo Agreements Annual Report on Open Market Operations Related External Content Federal Reserve Board: Monetary Policy By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map