Press Release New York Fed Launches Liberty Street Economics Research Blog March 21, 2011 Press Release NEW YORK – The Federal Reserve Bank of New York today launched Liberty Street Economics , a new research blog that offers commentary on current economic topics, including macroeconomic developments, financial markets and trends in the Second Federal Reserve District. Liberty Street Economics is a platform for members of the New York Fed’s Research and Statistics Group to share their individual analysis and insight on current issues and to engage in a direct dialogue with a broad online audience. The introductory post was written by Jamie McAndrews and Simon Potter, executive vice presidents and co-heads of the New York Fed’s Research and Statistics Group. The inaugural analytical post, by economists Meta Brown, Andrew Haughwout, Donghoon Lee and Wilbert van der Klaauw, examines consumer deleveraging. Liberty Street Economics was developed and is managed by the New York Fed’s Research and Statistics Group. Blog postings will be made by New York Fed economists each week. The views expressed in the blog are those of the author(s), and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the Federal Reserve System. Liberty Street Economics » About the Research and Statistics Group The Research and Statistics Group provides analytic support for the New York Fed’s responsibilities relating to monetary policy, banking supervision, payments systems, and financial market issues. In addition to contributing to the formulation and execution of policy in these areas, the economists conduct independent research on a wide range of topics and publish their findings in academic and Federal Reserve journals. Contact Media Relations NY.Fed.Media.Relations@ny.frb.org Quick Links Research and Statistics Group Resources Liberty Street Economics blog By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map