TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Reference Rates - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of NEW YORK
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Reference Rates The New York Fed produces a number of reference rates that provide insight into the dynamics of money markets, which is useful for evaluating the effectiveness of monetary policy implementation. Reference rates play several important roles in financial markets that support efficient market functioning. They facilitate trading in standardized contracts, which can lower transaction costs and improve market liquidity. They can reduce information asymmetries by providing a transparent, independent pricing source. And a well-designed, robust reference rate that is resistant to manipulation can limit participants’ incentives to misreport pricing for settling a contract. The New York Fed has served as an administrator and producer of reference rates since at least the 1950s, when it began publishing the daily effective federal funds rate. The New York Fed is committed to producing robust and resilient reference rates that are aligned with international best practices, including IOSCO's Principles for Financial Benchmarks. The New York Fed's reference rates are compliant with these best practices . Effective Federal Funds Rate (EFFR) The EFFR is calculated using data on overnight federal funds transactions provided by domestic banks and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks, as reported in the FR 2420 Report of Selected Money Market Rates. Overnight Bank Funding Rate (OBFR) The OBFR is calculated using the same federal funds transaction data that are included in the EFFR, as well as certain overnight Eurodollar transaction data and certain overnight deposit transactions that are placed at domestic bank branches, as reported in the FR 2420, including unsecured borrowings of U.S. dollars booked at international banking facilities and at offshore branches that are managed or controlled by a U.S. banking office. For more information, see Additional Information about Reference Rates Administered by the New York Fed. Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) The SOFR provides a broad measure of the general cost of financing Treasury securities overnight, and is calculated based on the data used for the BGCR, as defined below, plus transactions cleared through the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation's (FICC) Delivery-versus-Payment repo service. SOFR Averages and Index The SOFR Averages are backward-looking, compounded averages of realized overnight SOFR with tenors of 30-, 90-, and 180-calendar days. The SOFR Index reflects the cumulative impact of compounding SOFR each business day since April 2, 2018, when it was first published, and allows for the calculation of compounded average rates over custom time periods. Broad General Collateral Rate (BGCR) The BGCR provides a measure of the rate on overnight Treasury general collateral (GC) repo transactions, and is calculated based on the same tri-party repo transactions used for the TGCR, as defined below, plus General Collateral Finance (GCF) repo transactions cleared through the FICC's GCF Repo service. Tri-Party General Collateral Rate (TGCR) The TGCR provides a measure of the rate on overnight, tri-party GC repo transactions secured by Treasury securities, both centrally cleared and non-centrally cleared, that are executed between counterparties that know each other's identity at the time of the trade, and is calculated based on data collected from the Bank of New York Mellon and the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Financial Research (OFR). For more information, see Additional Information about Reference Rates Administered by the New York Fed. Find the Rates on the Markets Data Dashboard Announcements Statement Regarding the Publication of Reference Rates on Friday, April 3, 2026 Mar 12, 2026 Statement on IOSCO Compliance for Federal Reserve Bank of New York Administered Reference Rates Jul 17, 2025 Data Historical Search for Effective Federal Funds Rate Historical Search for Overnight Bank Funding Rate Markets Data Dashboard Markets Data APIs Related New York Fed Content The Role of the New York Fed as Administrator and Producer of Reference Rates IOSCO Compliance Introducing the Revised Broad Treasuries Financing Rate Investigating the Proposed Overnight Treasury GC Repo Benchmark Rates The Eurodollar Market in the United States The FR 2420 Data Collection: A New Base for the Fed Funds Rate Annual Report on Open Market Operations Alternative Reference Rates Committee Related External Content Reporting Form: FR 2420 Report of Selected Money Market Rates IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmarks FEDS Notes: The Cleared Bilateral Repo Market and Proposed Repo Benchmark Rates receive e-mail alerts for this page By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map