TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Treasury Continues to Disrupt Hamas’ Sham Charity Network as the Group Refuses to Disarm
URL: 
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

March 12, 2026 WASHINGTON —Today, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is designating four sham charities that directly fund Hamas’s Military Wing and its terrorist activities militants and enable the group to sustain its terrorist operations. Hamas continues to rely on deceitful practices to hide its revenue-generating activities behind civilian organizations under the pretense of conducting humanitarian work, while in reality supporting the group’s continued efforts to fund their terrorist operations. “Hamas continues to finance its military wing by exploiting sham charities to support terrorist operations,” said Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent . “The Treasury Department will not allow Hamas to misuse the charitable sector for its violent aims, and we will continue to target these networks wherever they operate.” The entities included in today’s action underscore Hamas’ efforts to leverage a covert global network to fund its Military Wing, the Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigades, which is responsible for carrying out some of the group’s most heinous terrorist activities. Today’s action builds on multiple previous OFAC actions against Hamas’ global network of sham charities, most recently on January 21, 2026 and June 10, 2025 . Hamas’ continued reliance on these types of organizations highlights the duplicity of its leaders, who prey on donors’ sympathies to siphon large sums of money into prolonging the suffering of Palestinians. Today’s action is being taken pursuant to the counterterrorism sanctions authority, Executive Order (E.O.) 13224, as amended. On October 31, 2001, the U.S. Department of State designated Hamas pursuant to E.O. 13224 for having committed, or posing a significant risk of committing, acts of terrorism that threaten the security of U.S. nationals, or the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States. Hamas is also designated as a Foreign Terrorist Organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. HAMAS-AFFILIATED CHARITIES IN TÜRKIYE AND INDONESIA As outlined in previous OFAC actions on October 7, 2024 , June 10, 2025 and January 21, 2026 , a key element of how Hamas raises overseas funds is through a network of nonprofit organizations that ultimately channel assets to local charities in Gaza that are controlled by Hamas. Ghazi Destek Dernegi (GDD), Hayat Yolu , and the Palestinian White Hands Assistance and Solidarity Association (Palestinian White Hands), are three Türkiye-based nonprofit organizations that are involved in this process and have provided significant material support to Hamas. GDD and Hayat Yolu are charities involved in Hamas’ international funding network that enables Hamas to generate external revenue in direct support of Hamas’ military wing. For example, a series of internal documents captured from Hamas show how GDD, working in collaboration with other sanctioned entities like Waed Society Gaza , has supported efforts to materially support individual Hamas members, as well as assist in construction projects that directly benefit Hamas. Separate internal Hamas documents also indicate Palestinian White Hands is integrated within the Hamas military wing security apparatus. Indonesia-based Komite Nasional Untuk Rakyat Palestina (KNRP) is a charity that Hamas military wing internal documents revealed has provided funding for charitable projects in Gaza that Hamas directly benefited from. For example, KNRP has coordinated with Hamas to fund and distribute material destined exclusively for Hamas fighters. Additionally, the Türkiye-based Hayat Yolu has been identified as an operational headquarters, banking and financial hub for the Muslim Brotherhood. Ghazi Destek Dernegi, Hayat Yolu, the White Hands Society, and Komite Nasional Untuk Rakyat Palestina are being designated pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended, for having materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, Hamas. SANCTIONS IMPLICATIONS As a result of today’s action, all property and interests in property of the designated or blocked persons described above that are in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons are blocked and must be reported to OFAC. In addition, any entities that are owned, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more blocked persons are also blocked. Unless authorized by OFAC, or exempt, OFAC’s regulations generally prohibit all transactions by U.S. persons or within (or transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests in property of blocked persons. Violations of U.S. sanctions may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties on U.S. and foreign persons. OFAC may impose civil penalties for sanctions violations on a strict liability basis. OFAC’s Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines provide more information regarding OFAC’s enforcement of U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, financial institutions and other persons may risk exposure to sanctions for engaging in certain transactions or activities involving designated or otherwise blocked persons. The prohibitions include the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any designated or blocked person, or the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person. Individuals located in the U.S. or abroad who provide information about sanctions violations to Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) whistleblower incentive program may be eligible for awards if the information they provide leads to a successful enforcement action that results in monetary penalties exceeding $1,000,000. Furthermore, engaging in certain transactions involving the persons designated today may risk the imposition of secondary sanctions on participating foreign financial institutions. OFAC can prohibit or impose strict conditions on opening or maintaining, in the United States, a correspondent account or a payable-through account of a foreign financial institution that knowingly conducts or facilitates any significant transaction on behalf of a person who is designated pursuant to the relevant authority. The power and integrity of OFAC sanctions derive not only from OFAC’s ability to designate and add persons to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List), but also from its willingness to remove persons from the SDN List consistent with the law. The ultimate goal of sanctions is not to punish, but to bring about a positive change in behavior. For information concerning the process for seeking removal from an OFAC list, including the SDN List, or to submit a request, please refer to OFAC’s guidance on Filing a Petition for Removal from an OFAC List . Click here for more information on the persons designated today . Use featured image Off