TARGET: macro catalysts
TOPIC: macro catalysts
TITLE: Over 53 Million Filers Claimed At Least One of President Trump’s Signature New Tax Cuts
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sb0441
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

April 15, 2026 Average Refund Over $3,400 This Tax Filing Season WASHINGTON – This Tax Day, tens of millions of American families, workers, and small businesses are reaping the benefits of President Trump’s Working Families Tax Cuts. “Under President Trump, we uphold the foundational principle that hardworking Americans should be rewarded, not punished with tax hikes, and the results of this tax season prove it. The Working Families Tax Cuts provided meaningful relief to middle- and low-income taxpayers, increasing take-home pay and putting more money back into the pockets of American families, workers, and small business owners,” said Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent . “Treasury and the IRS have worked tirelessly to ensure our tax system works for the people it is meant to serve. From the shop floor to the kitchen table, taxpayers are feeling the difference of the largest tax cuts in our nation’s history, and millions of Americans are keeping more of what they earn and seeing their paychecks go further than ever before.” “The Working Families Tax Cuts is delivering historic tax relief for working Americans. Led by President Trump, passed by Congressional Republicans in July 2025, and implemented by the IRS for this tax season, working families benefited from a federal government dedicated to working for them,” said IRS CEO Frank Bisignano . “Thanks to the legislation signed into law we are seeing historically high refunds and adoption of the President’s key tax initiatives at levels that surpassed expectations.” As of April 14, 2026: In households across America, over 53 million filers claimed at least one of President Trump's signature new tax cuts . The average refund this filing season is over $3,400 , an increase of 11 percent compared to last filing season. The average tax cut for filers benefitting from one of President Trump’s signature tax cuts is over $800 . Over 6 million filers have claimed No Tax on Tips , with an average deduction of over $7,100 . Over 25 million filers have claimed No Tax on Overtime , with an average deduction of over $3,100 . Over 30 million seniors have claimed the Enhanced Deduction for Seniors , with an average deduction of over $7,500 . Over 1 million filers have deducted No Tax on Car Loan Interest on their new American vehicles, with an average deduction of over $1,800 . 5 million Trump Accounts have been opened , with 1.2 million eligible for the $1,000 pilot program contribution . Over 34 million families have claimed the enhanced Child Tax Credit , which is permanently doubled and expanded by the Working Families Tax Cuts. Over 105 million filers have claimed the permanently doubled standard deduction , simplifying tax filing for millions across America. ### Use featured image Off