TARGET: market structure
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Multivariate Core Trend (MCT) Inflation
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/mct#--:mct-inflation:trend-inflation
LANE: seed_crawl
DISCOVERY_METHOD: crawl
DOMAIN_TRUST_TIER: high

Multivariate Core Trend Inflation The Multivariate Core Trend (MCT) model measures inflation’s persistence in the seventeen core sectors of the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index. Whether inflation is short-lived or persistent, concentrated in a few sectors or broad-based, is of deep relevance to policymakers. The approach underlying Multivariate Core Trend (MCT) Inflation estimates a dynamic factor model on monthly data for the major sectors of the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index to assess the extent of inflation persistence and its broadness. The results give a measure of trend inflation and shed light on whether inflation dynamics are dominated by a trend common across sectors or are sector-specific. New MCT estimates and sectoral insights publish at or shortly after 10 a.m. on the first business day following the release of PCE price index data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Data are available for download. EXPLORE INTERACTIVE How to cite this report: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Multivariate Core Trend Inflation, https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/mct. Related reading: Where Is Inflation Persistence Coming From? (July 2023) Inflation Persistence: Dissecting the News in January PCE Data (March 2023) Inflation Persistence—An Update with December Data (February 2023) The Layers of Inflation Persistence (January 2023) Inflation Persistence: How Much Is There and Where Is It Coming From? (April 2022) Disclaimer Multivariate Core Trend Inflation estimates are not official estimates of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, its President, the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Open Market Committee. About MCT Inflation The Multivariate Core Trend (MCT) model generates estimates of inflation persistence. New data and sectoral insights publish at or shortly after 10 a.m. on the first business day following the release of personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. MCT Inflation estimates are not official estimates of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, its President, the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Open Market Committee. MCT Inflation is a product of the Applied Macroeconomics and Econometrics Center (AMEC). Explore Multivariate Core Trend Inflation Related New York Fed Content Applied Macroeconomics & Econometrics Center (AMEC) Nowcasting Report MEET THE ECONOMISTS Staff Economists Visiting Scholars Resident Scholars receive e-mail alerts for Research Contact Us If you have questions about Multivariate Core Trend Inflation, submit them to research.publications@ny.frb.org . What is the goal of the Multivariate Core Trend (MCT) analysis? The aim of the analysis is to provide a measure of inflation’s trend, or “persistence,” and identify where the persistence is coming from. What data are reported? The interactive charts report monthly MCT estimates from 1960 to the present. They also provide estimates of how much three broad sectors (core goods, core services excluding housing, and housing) are contributing to overall trend inflation over the same time span. The analysis further distinguishes whether the persistence owes to common or sector-specific components. Data are available for download. What is the release schedule? The estimates of inflation persistence and sectoral insights publish monthly on the first business day following the release of PCE price index data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. What is the modeling strategy? A dynamic factor model with time-varying parameters is estimated on monthly data for the seventeen major sectors of the PCE price index. The model decomposes each sector’s inflation as the sum of a common trend, a sector-specific trend, a common transitory shock, and a sector-specific transitory shock. The trend in PCE inflation is constructed as the sum of the common and the sector-specific trends weighted by the expenditure shares. The analysis uses data from all seventeen of the PCE’s sectors; however, in constructing the trend in PCE inflation, the volatile non-core sectors (that is, food and energy) are excluded. The approach builds on Stock and Watson’s 2016 “ Core Inflation and Trend Inflation .” Is the code underlying this analysis available online? To make it easier for users to better understand and replicate the results, MATLAB code for the model is provided. The code, along with a snapshot of the PCE dataset, can be found on GitHub . The newest releases for all data series are publicly available from the BEA or the FRED database. How does the MCT measure differ from the core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation measure? The core inflation measure simply removes the volatile food and energy components. The MCT model seeks to further remove the transitory variation from the core sectoral inflation rates. This has been key in understanding inflation developments in recent years because, during the pandemic, many core sectors (motor vehicles and furniture, for example) were hit by unusually large transitory shocks. An ideal measure of inflation persistence should filter those out. PCE data are subject to revision by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). How does that affect MCT estimates? BEA monthly revisions as well as other BEA periodic revisions to PCE price data do lead to reassessments of the estimated inflation persistence as measured by the MCT estimates. Larger revisions may lead to a more significant reassessment. A recent example of the latter case is described on Liberty Street Economics in “ Inflation Persistence: Dissecting the News in January PCE Data .” Historical estimates in the MCT data series back to 1960 are based on the latest vintage of data available and incorporate all prior revisions. How does the MCT Inflation measure relate to other inflation measures? The MCT model adds to the set of tools that aim at measuring the persistent component of PCE price inflation. Some approaches, such as the Cleveland Fed’s Median PCE and the Dallas Fed’s Trimmed Mean, rely on the cross-sectional distribution of price changes in each period. Other approaches rely on frequency-domain time series smoothing methods. The MCT approach shares some features with them, namely: exploiting the cross-sectional distribution of price changes and using time series smoothing techniques. But the MCT model also has some unique features that are relevant to inflation data. For example, it allows for outliers and for the noisiness of the data and for the relation with the common component to change over time. How useful can MCT data be for policymakers? The MCT model provides a timely measure of inflationary pressure and provides insights on how much price changes comove across sectors. About MCT Inflation The Multivariate Core Trend (MCT) model generates estimates of inflation persistence. New data and sectoral insights publish at or shortly after 10 a.m. on the first business day following the release of personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. MCT Inflation estimates are not official estimates of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, its President, the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Open Market Committee. MCT Inflation is a product of the Applied Macroeconomics and Econometrics Center (AMEC). Related New York Fed Content Applied Macroeconomics & Econometrics Center (AMEC) Nowcasting Report MEET THE ECONOMISTS Staff Economists Visiting Scholars Resident Scholars receive e-mail alerts for Research Contact Us If you have questions about Multivariate Core Trend Inflation, submit them to research.publications@ny.frb.org . By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Statement . You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our Privacy Statement . Request a Speaker International Seminars & Training Governance & Culture Reform Data Visualization Economic Research Tracker Markets Data APIs Podcast Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Site Map