TARGET: Treasury Press Releases
TOPIC: market structure
TITLE: Remarks: A Reset on Liquidity Regulation | U.S. Department of the Treasury
URL: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sb0412

Remarks: A Reset on Liquidity Regulation | U.S. Department of the Treasury
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
A locked padlock
)
or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
MENU
MENU
U.S. Department of the Treasury
About Treasury
Enter Search Term(s):
Advanced Search
About Treasury
General Information
Role of the Treasury
Officials
Organizational Chart
Orders and Directives
Offices
Domestic Finance
Economic Policy
General Counsel
International Affairs
Management
Public Affairs
Tax Policy
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence
Tribal and Native Affairs
Inspectors General
Bureaus
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
Bureau of Engraving & Printing (BEP)
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
U.S. Mint
Office of Inspector General (OIG)
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR)
Budget, Financial Reporting, Planning and Performance
Strategic Plan
Budget Request/Annual Performance Plan and Reports
Agency Financial Report
Inspector General Audits and Investigative Reports
IRS Strategic Operating Plan
History
Curator
History Overview
Prior Secretaries
Prior Treasurers
The Treasury Building
Collections
Freedman's Bank Building
Careers
At Headquarters
At Our Bureaus
Top 10 Reasons to Work Here
Benefits and Growth
Workforce
Veterans Employment
Pathways
How to Apply
Search Jobs
The Fair Chance to Compete Act
Policy Issues
Enter Search Term(s):
Advanced Search
Policy Issues
COVID19 Economic Relief
American Families and Workers
Small Businesses
State, Local, and Tribal Governments
American Industry
Tax Policy
Data Transparency
Revenue Proposals
Tax Expenditures
International Tax
Treaties and Related Documents
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA)
Reports
Tax Analysis
Tax Regulatory Process
Economic Policy
Treasury Coupon Issues
Corporate Bond Yield Curve
Economic Policy Reports
Social Security and Medicare
Total Taxable Resources
Terrorism and Illicit Finance
Sanctions
Asset Forfeiture
311 Actions
Terrorist Finance Tracking Program
Money Laundering
Financial Action Task Force
Protecting Charitable Organizations
Financing the Government
Treasury Quarterly Refunding
Interest Rate Statistics
Treasury Securities
Treasury Investor Data
Debt Management Research
Financial Markets, Financial Institutions, and Fiscal Service
Cash and Debt Forecasting
Debt Limit
Financial Stability Oversight Council
Federal Insurance Office
RESTORE Act
1603 Program
The Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) Fund
Making Home Affordable
Financial Sanctions
Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN List)
Consolidated Sanctions List
Search OFAC's Sanctions Lists
Additional Sanctions Lists
OFAC Recent Actions
Sanctions Programs and Country Information
Frequently Asked Questions
OFAC Civil Penalties and Enforcement
Contact OFAC
Consumer Policy
Financial Literacy and Education Commission
Mymoney.gov
Innovations in Financial Services
Featured Research
Student Loans
International
The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS)
Outbound Investment Security Program
Exchange Stabilization Fund
G-7 and G-20
International Monetary Fund
Multilateral Development Banks
Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Policies of Major Trading Partners
Exchange Rate Analysis
U.S.-China Comprehensive Strategic Economic Dialogue (CED)
Small Business Programs
Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
Small Business Lending Fund
State Small Business Credit Initiative
Tribal Affairs
Data
Enter Search Term(s):
Advanced Search
Data
Interest Rates
Daily Treasury Par Yield Curve Rates
Daily Treasury Par Real Yield Curve Rates
Daily Treasury Bill Rates
Daily Treasury Long-Term Rates
Daily Treasury Real Long-Term Rates
Treasury Coupon-Issue and Corporate Bond Yield Curve
Treasury Coupon Issues
Corporate Bond Yield Curve
Federal Financial Data
Your Guide to America’s Finances
Monthly Treasury Statement
Daily Treasury Statement
How Your Money Is Spent
USAspending.gov
National Debt
National Debt to the Penny
Historical Debt Outstanding
Monthly Statement of the Public Debt
Quarterly Refunding
Debt Management Overview and Quarterly Refunding Process
Most Recent Documents
Archives
Webcasts
Investor Class Auction Allotments
Other Programs
Treasury International Capital (TIC) System
U.S International Portfolio Investment Statistics
Release Dates
Forms and Instructions
TIC Press Releases
U.S. International Reserve Position
Troubled Assets Relief Program
Reports
Office of the Chief Data Officer
Federal CDO Council
Data.gov
Treasury Open Data
Evidence Act H.R.4174
Datafoundation.org
Services
Enter Search Term(s):
Advanced Search
Services
Report Fraud, Waste & Abuse
Report COVID-19 Scam Attempts
Report Scam Attempts
Report Fraud Related to Government Contracts
Inspectors General
Bonds and Securities
Buy, Manage, and Redeem
Treasury Hunt - Search for Matured Bonds
Cashing Savings Bonds in Disaster-Declared Areas
Frequently Asked Questions
Grant Programs
Pay for Results (SIPPRA)
RESTORE Act
Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) Fund
Treasury Payments
Where is my Refund?
Lost or Expired Check
Direct Express Card
Non-Benefit Federal Payments
Electronic Federal Benefit Payments - GoDirect
Currency and Coins
Shop for Coin Products
Shop for Currency Products
Redeem Damaged Currency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
U.S Mint
Auctions
IRS Auctions
Real Estate
General Property, Vehicles, Vessels & Aircraft
Kline-Miller Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014
Applications
Frequently Asked Questions
Education
Whistleblowing and Financial Integrity
Whistleblower Resources
Taxes
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
IRS Forms, Instructions & Publications
Refund Status
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act
Forms
IRS Forms and Instructions
Savings Bonds - Treasury Securities
Bank Secrecy Act - Fincen 114 and more
OFAC License Application
OFAC Reporting
Treasury International Capital (TIC)
Government Shared Services
Treasury Franchise Fund (TFF)
Administrative Resource Center (ARC)
Shared Services Program (SSP)
Financial Management (FM) Marketplace Catalog
TreasuryDirect
Invoice Processing Platform
Tours and Library
Historic Treasury Building
Library
Curator
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
U.S. Mint
News
Enter Search Term(s):
Advanced Search
News
Featured Stories
December 23, 2025
Penny Production Cessation FAQs
February 8, 2025
United States Department of the Treasury Announces New Appointments
February 8, 2025
Treasury Targets Oil Network Generating Hundreds of Millions of Dollars for Iran’s Military
View all
Featured Stories
Press Releases
March 26, 2026
URIF Announces First Investment, Strengthening Ukraine’s Security and Unlocking New Emerging Technology for the United States and Allies
March 25, 2026
Financial Stability Oversight Council Issues Proposed Guidance on Nonbank Financial Company Designations
March 23, 2026
Treasury Launches the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Innovation Series
View All
Press Releases
Remarks and Statements
March 3, 2026
Remarks: A Reset on Liquidity Regulation
February 20, 2026
Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent’s Remarks Before the Economic Club of Dallas - Economic Security First
February 6, 2026
Remarks by Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent Before the Financial Literacy and Education Commission 2026 Public Meeting
View All
Remarks and Statements
Press Information
Press Contacts
Weekly Public Schedule Archive
Webcasts
Media Advisories Archive
Subscribe to Press Releases
Twitter
View All Tweets
Year in review
Working Families Tax Cuts
Search
Enter Search Term(s):
Advanced Search
Search
The Public
General Public
Auctions
Report Scam Attempts
Savings Bonds
Businesses
All Businesses
Form 941, employer's quarterly federal tax return
Employer Identification Number (EIN)
Small Businesses
Government Contracting Small Business Contacts
Financial Institutions
All Financial Institutions
Specially Designated Nationals list
Interest rate statistics
Quarterly refunding information
Government
Federal Government
Budget, Financial Reporting, Planning and Performance
Shared Services
TreasuryDirect for Government
Breadcrumb
Home
News
Press Releases
Statements & Remarks
Secretary Statements & Remarks
News
Press Releases
Statements & Remarks
Readouts
Testimonies
Featured Stories
Webcasts
Press Contacts
Secretary Statements & Remarks
Remarks: A Reset on Liquidity Regulation
March 3, 2026
As Prepared By: Secretary Scott Bessent
As Delivered By: Under Secretary for Domestic Finance Jonathan McKernan
The Regulatory Reset
Good afternoon, it is great to be here.
Let me begin by thanking Hal Scott for convening this roundtable on bank liquidity and the lender of last resort.
Under President Trump’s leadership, the Treasury Department has coordinated a fundamental reset of financial regulation. And the regulators have certainly not wasted time.
They have ended decades of regulation by reflex and rolled back the Biden administration’s regulatory excesses.
They have tackled the problem of “too small to succeed” and affirmed a commitment to preserving the community bank model.
They have refocused bank supervision on material financial risk.
They have recommitted to regulatory tailoring.
They are clearing the way for digital assets and other responsible innovation.
And very soon, they will propose a modernization of bank capital that simplifies and rationalizes the framework, ends the capital arbitrage that drives financial activity to nonbanks, and ensures competitive parity for smaller banks.
Bank liquidity is the next big-ticket item.
This roundtable is on a critically important topic with immediate real-world implications for this historic time. Artificial intelligence is no longer science fiction. The onshoring of American manufacturing is no longer aspirational. The competition for critical minerals is no longer abstract.
To unlock the vast promise of this transformation and secure America’s Golden Age, we confront the pressing necessity of unlocking hundreds of billions—potentially trillions—in new lending capacity to finance AI infrastructure, domestic supply chains, and the defense industrial base.
The problem, however, and the reason this roundtable is timely, is that the framework for supervising and regulating bank liquidity created in response to the 2008 financial crisis has excessively and unnecessarily limited banks’ ability to do what they are supposed to do—lend.
The debate on bank liquidity goes directly to whether we will have a financial system that supports growth and economic security—or quietly stifles it under the guise of prudence.
Which is all to say, liquidity regulation
1
is an area of steady and serious focus for the Treasury Department.
The Case for a Fresh Look
During the 2008 crisis, liquidity evaporated suddenly. Wholesale funding froze. Fire sales impaired balance sheets across the system. Governments and central banks were compelled to step in. The legitimacy of the financial system and our institutions generally came into question.
Post-crisis liquidity regulation has succeeded in reducing the likelihood of a redux of 2008.
But its genesis also gives us cause for a fresh look. Liquidity regulation was novel and even muddled guesswork, an inevitable overcorrection written in the dark shadow of the crisis.
On this first point, liquidity had historically been the province of supervision, not formula. There was simply no precedent for prescribing numerical liquidity buffers in rule.
There also was no settled conceptual framework for calibrating those numerical requirements, as even then-Governor Tarullo recognized.
2
Capital regulation rests on a calibration framework for assigning exposure-specific requirements. The architects of liquidity regulation, in contrast, assigned inflow and outflow rates based on historical experience and intuition. Call it two parts data, one part gut, and a heavy dash of post-crisis trauma.
Another reason for a fresh look is that things have changed considerably since. The speed at which liquidity stress can be triggered and transmitted—already fast in 2008—has only accelerated, as we saw in March 2023.
After March 2023, almost everyone now agrees that operational readiness and discount window stigma need a better solution. SVB, Signature, and First Republic each had substantial holdings of Treasuries and agency MBS. But that liquidity existed only on paper. Collateral was not fully prepositioned. Discount window access was untested. That was in part because the policymakers who had designed the framework were so keenly focused on reducing dependence on the lender of last resort so as to mitigate moral hazard.
3
Then reality intervened in March 2023. Now, the conversation is about reducing discount window stigma, incentivizing collateral prepositioning, and normalizing routine testing of central bank facilities.
The upshot is that we should not treat post-crisis liquidity regulation as somehow sacrosanct. These rules are working drafts, not tablets handed down from the mountain. With the benefit of some distance from the crisis, it is time for a fresh look.
Re-assessing the Costs and Benefits
Shifting then to the costs and benefits. At its core, liquidity regulation necessarily draws a line: to what extent should banks self-insure liquidity risk, and how much of that risk should be borne by the lender of last resort?
Requiring banks to fully self-insure even severe liquidity risk comes at a steep cost. When 25 percent of large banks’ balance sheets are allocated to safe assets—up from roughly 10 percent before the crisis—that necessarily means less lending for mortgages, small businesses, AI hyperscalers, and critical infrastructure.
Those costs must be balanced against the benefits. To foster resiliency, we should guard against the run risks posed by excessive reliance on short-term wholesale funding. That lesson from 2008 remains intact.
Liquidity regulation should also support orderly resolution. As SVB’s Thursday turmoil reminds us, buffers buy time—ideally until the Friday close—so that authorities can arrange a sale or otherwise implement an orderly wind-down.
Liquidity regulation also should enhance operational readiness for stress. In particular, banks should be encouraged to preposition collateral and test central bank facilities.
Given these objectives, one clear shortcoming is that banks generally have proven unwilling to draw down buffers during stress periods. The architects of liquidity regulation were explicit that buffer useability was critical to achieving their intended effect.
4
But in practice, both regulators and markets have treated the buffers as untouchable hard minimums. As a result, instead of acting as shock absorbers, buffer requirements can actually exacerbate the hoarding of liquid assets, accelerating the transmission of liquidity stress throughout the system.
And here’s an irony: by driving banks to exhaust regulatory buffers before accessing the discount window, we have entrenched discount window stigma. If you only go to the window when things are really bad, then going to the window signals that things are really bad.
The framework has also done little to enhance readiness and willingness to use the central bank’s facilities. Indeed, as policymakers at the time made clear, the intent was 180 degrees the opposite, in effect deputizing large banks as liquidity insurers for the financial system writ large. That was a mistake.
Use of the lender of last resort during severe stress is not a policy failure. That’s what the central bank is designed to do—prevent liquidity spirals. When banks monetize liquid assets through sales or repo, that simply redistributes reserves, potentially even spreading liquidity stress across the system. Because only the central bank can create new reserves, only the central bank can add the aggregate system-wide base liquidity that typically is necessary to counteract a flight to safety. That unique power positions the central bank as the natural insurer against severe liquidity stress.
Potential Reforms
Given this misalignment in liquidity regulation, there is a strong case for a wholesale revisiting of the framework. But that should not hold up near-term reforms to restore the lender of last resort to its intended role. To that end, the liquidity coverage ratio requirements and other liquidity rules
5
should give appropriate capped recognition of borrowing capacity associated with collateral prepositioned at the discount window.
This is a targeted, sensible reform that simply recognizes that prepositioned, collateralized borrowing capacity is real, monetizable liquidity. This reform would help rebalance the boundary between self-insurance and the lender of last resort. It also would enhance operational preparedness by creating strong incentives for prepositioning collateral and regular testing. And it could reduce discount window stigma by normalizing access.
The cap on recognized discount window borrowing capacity is a critical feature. Self-insurance against idiosyncratic liquidity risk remains critical for resiliency and orderly resolution.
In designing and calibrating the cap, regulators could explore whether it should be sized for each bank based on the bank’s demonstrated usage of the discount window. For example, recognized borrowing capacity could be capped at the lesser of the overall ceiling and some multiple of the bank’s discount window borrowing over a specified period of time. That approach could ensure that this borrowing capacity is indeed real liquidity while helping to reduce discount window stigma.
Regulators could also explore a mechanism to adjust the cap during severe stress. Temporarily increasing recognition could enhance buffer useability by temporarily adjusting banks’ liquidity metrics. Increasing the cap during stress also could interact with incentives for ongoing, limited use to create automatic structural stabilizers that involve the discount window early on when stress is incipient.
Importantly, none of this need undermine market or regulatory discipline. Central bank borrowing would remain collateralized, subject to conservative haircuts, and limited to solvent institutions. Capital requirements would remain appropriately calibrated. Supervisors would retain their access and discretion.
What this would do is align liquidity regulation with the appropriate role of the lender of last resort. The central bank can, should, and indeed must, step in to provide liquidity during periods of severe stress. We should design the framework accordingly.
Conclusion
Over the last year, the regulators have made significant progress toward a financial system that supports Parallel Prosperity for both Wall Street and Main Street. Liquidity reform will be a critical step toward getting banks back into lending—back into financing homes, factories, infrastructure, and innovation.
In parallel with this work, Treasury will continue to coordinate complementary reforms. The administration will continue to advocate for targeted deposit insurance reform, in particular expanded coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. I expect FinCEN and the bank regulators will soon propose a rule to recenter AML/CFT supervision on program effectiveness, and enhance FinCEN’s role in AML/CFT supervision and enforcement. I expect the bank regulators will soon revamp the model risk governance guidance that has constrained responsible AI adoption. And we will continue to push for agreements among the bank regulators to reduce duplicative examinations.
With this progress, I would encourage you to think ambitiously about the future of finance and financial regulation. To that end, Treasury will begin to rethink the appropriate activities of banking organizations, with an eye in particular toward facilitating responsible adoption of new technologies.
Thank you for the time today, and I look forward to hearing your thoughts.
1. Liquidity regulation includes the liquidity coverage ratio requirement, the net stable funding ratio requirement, internal liquidity stress tests conducted pursuant to rule, the resolution liquidity adequacy and positioning requirement, and the resolution liquidity execution need requirement, as well as the related supervisory expectations with respect to liquidity risk management.
2.In November 2014, then-Governor Tarullo said, “Liquidity regulation is still a relatively new undertaking . . . . There is still need for conceptual work on such questions as how to specify the extent to which banks should be required to self-insure against liquidity risk . . . .”
Daniel K. Tarullo, Governor, Bd. of Governors of the Fed. Reserve Sys.,
Liquidity Regulation
, Remarks at The Clearing House 2014 Annual Conference (Nov. 20, 2014)
.
3.At the time, then-Governor Stein argued that “liquidity regulation . . . reflect[s] a desire to reduce dependence on the central bank as a lender of last resort (LOLR)” and that “a central premise must be that the use of LOLR capacity in a crisis scenario is socially costly.” He rationalized that premise in part on the assumption that “the use of an LOLR to support banks when they get into trouble can lead to moral hazard problems.”
Jeremy C. Stein, Governor, Bd. of Governors of the Fed. Reserve Sys.,
Liquidity Regulation and Central Banking
, Remarks at “Finding the Right Balance,” 2013 Credit Markets Symposium Sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (Apr. 19, 2013)
. Governor Stein did however express an openness to counting some committed LOLR capacity in the liquidity coverage ratio requirement, but only to the extent it had an upfront fee.
4.
Id.
(“The [Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision] has also made clear its view that, during periods of stress, it would be appropriate for banks to use their [high-quality liquid assets], thereby falling below the minimum. However, creating a regime in which banks voluntarily choose to do so is not an easy task. A number of observers have expressed the concern that if a bank is held to an [liquidity coverage ratio] standard of 100 percent in normal times, it may be reluctant to allow its ratio to drop below 100 percent when facing large outflows, even if regulators were to permit this temporary deviation, for fear that a decline in the ratio could be interpreted as a sign of weakness.”).
5.The regulators could consider adjustments to other liquidity regulations, including the internal liquidity stress tests and the resolution-related liquidity requirements.
Use featured image
Off
Latest News
March 26, 2026
URIF Announces First Investment, Strengthening Ukraine’s Security and Unlocking New Emerging Technology for the United States and Allies
March 25, 2026
Financial Stability Oversight Council Issues Proposed Guidance on Nonbank Financial Company Designations
READOUT: Financial Stability Oversight Council Meeting on March 25, 2026
March 23, 2026
Treasury Launches the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Innovation Series
March 20, 2026
Treasury Sanctions Global Network Diverting Funds to Benefit Hizballah
Bureaus
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade (TTB)
Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
U.S. Mint
Inspector General Sites
Office of Inspector General (OIG)
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
Report Scams, Fraud, Waste & Abuse
Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR)
U.S. Government Shared Services
Administrative Resource Center (ARC)- Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Treasury Direct Services for Governments
Financial Management (FM) Marketplace Catalog
Additional Resources
Privacy Act
Small Business Contacts
Budget and Performance
TreasuryDirect.gov Securities/Bonds
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
No FEAR Act Data
Whistleblower Protection
Other Government Sites
USA.gov
USAJOBS.gov
OPM.gov
MyMoney.gov
Data.gov
Forms.gov
Regulations.gov
PaymentAccuracy.gov
my Social Security
Vote.gov
Privacy Policy
Google Privacy
Site Policies and Notices
FAQs
Feedback
Careers
Accessibility
Contact
Required Plug-ins
Adobe® Reader®
Twitter
Facebook